# From Technology to Society: An Overview of Blockchain-based DAO
# Authors: Lu Liu, Sicong Zhou, Huawei Huang, Zibin Zheng
# Source: https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.14940
# Year: 2020
# Retrieved: 2026-03-24
# License: arXiv non-exclusive license

> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER <
1
From Technology to Society: An Overview of Blockchain-based DAO
Lu Liu, Sicong Zhou, Huawei Huang1, Zibin Zheng1
Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO) is believed to play a signiﬁcant role in our future society governed in a decentralized
way. In this article, we ﬁrst explain the deﬁnitions and preliminaries of DAO. Then, we conduct a literature review of the existing
studies of DAO published in the recent few years. Through the literature review, we ﬁnd out that a comprehensive survey towards
the state-of-the-art studies of DAO is still missing. To ﬁll this gap, we perform such an overview by identifying and classifying the
most valuable proposals and perspectives closely related to the combination of DAO and blockchain technologies. We anticipate that
this survey can help researchers, engineers, and educators acknowledge the cutting-edge development of blockchain-related DAO
technologies.
Index Terms—Blockchain, Contracts, DAO, Fault Tolerant System, Governance
I. INTRODUCTION
Blockchain-based technologies have been deeply adopted by
multiple applications that are closely related to every corner of
our daily life, such as cryptocurrencies, tokenomics, business
applications, Internet-of-Things (IoT) applications, and etc..
Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO), as one of the
blockchain applications shown in Fig. 1, is growing rapidly
and drawing great attention from both academia and the
governments around the world. Although DAO has brought
a lot of opportunities to blockchain technologies, we are sur-
prised to ﬁnd out that an overview of DAO in the perspective
of blockchains is still missing. Based on the background
mentioned above, we perform a comprehensive classiﬁcation
on the latest studies combining the blockchain and DAO.
The taxonomy in this article mainly includes three cate-
gories. In the ﬁrst category, we discuss the common problems
and the related studies of blockchain and DAO, including
various attacks and security issues of blockchains, and the
counter-trend issues. In the second category, we focus on the
issues related to DAO governance and the existing develop-
ment of a more in-depth discussion. In the third category, we
evaluate the latest development of DAO in various ﬁelds, such
as e-government, economy, and etc., and predict the future
development directions of the relevant ﬁelds.
Although a small number of researchers are worried about
the future of DAO and blockchain due to the hard fork caused
by The DAO hacking incident [1], most of them still have high
expectations on this technology. We also believe that with the
inspiring pace of the development of DAO and blockchain,
the DAO projects can become mature, and DAO will show
overwhelming advantages over many existing solutions.
Through this overview, we ﬁnd the most important ﬁndings
on this direction is that the future effort can be devoted to
improving DAO from a better balance of decentralization,
This work was supported in part by the Key-Area Research and De-
velopment Program of Guangdong Province (No. 2019B020214006), the
National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 61902445, No. 61722214),
the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities of China
(No.19lgpy222), and the Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research
Foundation (No. 2019A1515011798).
Lu Liu and Sicong Zhou have the equal contribution. Authors are all with
the School of Computer Science and Engineering, Sun Yat-Sen University,
Guangzhou, China.
1Corresponding author. Email: {huanghw28, zhzibin}@mail.sysu.edu.cn
Exchange
Exchange
Miner
Miner
Contract
Contract
Contract
User
User
User
User
User
Developer
Developer
Fig. 1. The structure of DAO.
security and scalability. We look forward to a new integration
of both social and organizational structure of DAO in the
context of blockchain technologies. To help have a clear clue
of this article, Fig. 2 shows the organization of this article.
II. PRELIMINARIES
A. Decentralization
In general case of centralization, the use of a database is
basically based on the trust of a third-party organization. For
example, as the third party, people all trust the banking system,
which can correctly manage the database and record our
transactions. The bank keeps accounts for every transaction,
and only the bank has the authority to keep users’ accounts.
However, the shortcoming of such centralized organization is
obvious. No one can make sure that whether the centralized
organization that manages the database is entirely trustworthy.
For example, during the global economic crisis in 2008, the
US government could issue money indeﬁnitely, because it is
the central institution of monetary management.
On the contrary, decentralization means that the database
does not depend on a speciﬁc organization or administrator
but is distributed among all peers. Blockchain is essentially a
decentralized database. Each full node has a complete copy
of the blockchain ledger. If the database is modiﬁed, the
arXiv:2011.14940v2  [cs.CR]  16 Feb 2021
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER <
2
Section II : Preliminaries
Definitions, Terminologies and History of DAO
Section III : State-of-the-art Studies
Section IV: Open Issues and Future Directions
Research Topics
Section V: Conclusions
Taxonomy of state-of-the-art Studies related to
blockchain-based DAO
Engineering Perspectives
Section I: Introduction
Motivation & Contribution
Background of Blockchain
Fig. 2. The structure of this overview.
information saved by all nodes will be noticed. Thus, the
information in the blockchain database will be open and
transparent. Decentralization solves the trust problem through
redundant data validation.
B. Bitcoin Blockchain
Originally proposed by Satoshi Nakamoto [2], Bitcoin is the
ﬁrst application of the blockchain. In Bitcoin, the blockchain
serves as a distributed database that stores all transactions
originated from one account to another. The advantages of
blockchain brings many pros for the Bitcoin ecosystem. For
example, everyone has the right to validate accounts, the
currency cannot be overissued, and the entire ledger is com-
pletely open and transparent. When processing a transaction,
Bitcoin adopts the techniques of digital signatures to identify
the ownership of a coin. Each Bitcoin account address has a
private and a public keys. The private key is private and is used
to exercise the bitcoin ownership of the bitcoin account, while
the public key is known to all nodes to verify the transaction
and the balance of a Bitcoin account. When the transfer
information of a transaction is published, a digital signature
must be embedded by encrypting the digital summary of the
transfer message together with the private key of the sender.
Thus, other nodes can use the public key of the sender’s
account to decrypt and verify the legality of the transaction.
After such veriﬁcation, each blockchain node is acknowledged
this transaction.
C. Deﬁnition and Background of DAO
DAO was originally introduced by the white paper [3],
in which DAO is deﬁned as an organization built on smart
contracts that can execute autonomously. Unlike the con-
ventional centralized entities, it doesn’t include the central
control or management. As shown in Fig. 1, DAO achieves the
decentralized organization by encoding a set of rules in smart
contracts, where how DAO performs is predeﬁned. Although
Fig. 3. Blockchain-related ﬁelds.
this completely decentralized way makes investors typically
don’t know and trust each other, blockchain is a good tool
to help achieve the goal of DAO. However, DAOs are not
necessarily to built on top of an existing blockchain such
as Ethereum [4]. During the getting-start guidelines, Casino
[2] was published as an introduction to DAO. It presents the
concepts, characteristics, frameworks, applications, the future
trends of DAO, and etc. The readers will gain a systematic
overview of DAO that spans multiple domains.
D. Project The DAO
In the development of DAO, the ﬁrst DAO project is
proposed with a historic and dramatic meaning. A partic-
ular historical moment of DAO is the creation of the ﬁrst
DAO and how it was eventually hacked. The DAO project
was started on April 30th, 2016. By the end of the entire
funding period, more than 11,000 enthusiastic members had
participated and raised 150 million dollars, making the The
DAO the largest crowdfunding project in history. It was an
overnight success, but the idea of The DAO vulnerability had
been circulating in the developer community. Finally on June
18th, a hacker began using a “recursive call vulnerability" in
the software to collect Ether coins from The DAO’s token
sales. He took advantages of a well-intentioned but poorly
implemented feature of DAO designed to prevent the majority
from tyrannizing over dissenting DAO token holders. But this
“split" feature was implemented to make The DAO vulnerable
to catastrophic reentrance errors. As a result, the attacker was
able to steal about 3.6 million ETH, worth about $50 million
at the time of the attack, bringing the price of the coin from
more than 20 dollars to less than 13 dollars. Losses reached
70 million dollars. The DAO’s problems have had a negative
impact on both the Ethereum network and its cryptocurrency.
The situation for The DAO investors is particularly precarious.
Eventually, over 90% of the hashrates indicated support for
a fork. The DAO fund was returned to investors as if the
organization never existed. The DAO hack sparked a debate
about hard forks and soft forks, and the creation of Ethereum
Classic [1].
E. To Launch a DAO Project
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER <
3
Fig. 4. The four-step launch of a DAO project.
Although the ﬁrst DAO project failed, it did not completely
prevent the initiation and development of other DAO projects.
The operation of launching a DAO project includes the fol-
lowing steps [5], which are also illustrated in Fig. 4:
1) Developing and deploying smart contracts according to
predeﬁned rules.
2) Handling the token issues (through ICO) at the initial
ﬁnancing stage.
3) At the end of the ﬁnancing phase, a DAO starts running.
4) Proposals are made and members can vote on them.
F. Existing Popular DAOs
The representative existing implementations of DAO are
reviewed as follows.
1) Aragon
Aragon [6] is a platform that enables any participant to
collaborate with others without any third-party organizers. On
Aragon, people can create a decentralized digital jurisdiction
for their company, community, and organization. The Aragon
users are also allowed to create diverse communities. For
example, a ﬁnancial DAO can be generated to incentivize
internal usage of coninbase Apps, a council DAO is launched
to expand the utilization of wealth management, or a pocket
DAO is established to eliminate blockchain infrastructure
monopolies.
2) Colony
Colony [7] is designed as an infrastructure that enables
organizations collaborate with each other via the decentralized
software implemented on top of Ethereum. It treats every
participant impartially. Unlike other DAOs, Colony advocates
to eliminate the requirement of voting from members. Instead,
it focus on mechanisms that enforce people to get their job
done.
3) DAOstack
DAOstack [8] is an open-source, modular DAO project,
which leverages the technology and adoption of decentralized
governance, enabling people to create the DApps (decentral-
ized apps), DAOs, and DAO tools.
Although several DAOs have been implemented, we should
notice that DAO is still in its immature stage, a large number
of new DAOs will be developed for future, and many insights
of DAOs will be perceived then.
III. TAXONOMY OF STATE-OF-THE-ART STUDIES
In this part, we perform a thorough taxonomy towards
the existing up-to-date studies of blockchain-related DAO.
Through the classiﬁcation of the existing literature related to
DAO, we ﬁnd that in addition to the introduction of DAO
systems, existing studies mainly focus on the security issues,
applications in various ﬁelds, and DAO governance issues.
Therefore, we divide it into the categories presented in each
subsection.
Among those categories, on the analysis of the questions
about DAOs related issues, we divide them into two classes.
On one hand, a DAO project is based on the blockchain,
thus the problems existing in blockchain are also the existing
problems of DAO. On the other hand, DAO induces some new
problems in governance. Such relevant studies are reviewed
in governance problems and solutions. Finally, in the last
category, DAO and related areas, we pay attention to the
current development of DAO in the context of various ﬁelds.
A. Existing Problems and Solutions of Blockchains
The hacking incident of the ﬁrst The DAO project triggered
the introspection of DAO project [9]. The ﬁrst generation
blockchain technology, Blockchain 1.0, was mainly invented
for cryptocurrency purposes. Then, the second generation of
Blockchain 2.0, represented by Ethereum, is an open platform
that enables a new decentralized computing paradigm. The
DAO is exactly based on Ethereum. While there are no obvious
security vulnerabilities in pure cryptocurrency systems such as
Bitcoin [10], the second-generation blockchain applications
and semantics inevitably introduce security vulnerabilities
[11], [12].
Besides, from the perspective of social development, we
observe some common problems that need to be solved
together for both blockchains and the DAO. For example, the
typical problems include:
• the interpretation of fork culture by DAO hacker event;
• whether there are problems in the application develop-
ment of distributed ledger technology (DLT);
• and whether the main trend of blockchain technology is
reasonable.
Inspired by those questions, the blockchain system hacker
attacks [1] and security issues [13], blockchain counter-trend
issues [14] have drawn a lot of attention.
1) Security
threats
and
enhancement
solutions
in
blockchain
Blockchain technology has shown a promising application
prospect since its birth. Blockchain has been used in many
ﬁelds, ranging from the original cryptocurrency to various
applications based on smart contracts. Along with the boom-
ing development of blockchains, the security and privacy of
blockchains should not be ignored. On the basis of existing
studies on blockchain security and privacy issues, Li et al.
[13] systematically studied the security threats of blockchains
through the analysis of popular blockchain systems. Their ma-
jor contribution includes (a) analyzing the causes and possible
consequences of each risk or vulnerability, (b) investigating the
corresponding actual attack, and (c) analyzing the exploited
vulnerability.
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER <
4
TABLE I
EXISTING DAO AS BLOCKCHAIN PROBLEMS AND SOLUTIONS
References
Recognition
Methodology
Li [13]
Security threats and enhance-
ment solutions in blockchain
A systematic study on the security threats to blockchain and the
corresponding real attacks, and suggests some future directions
to stir research efforts into this area.
Zhou [15]
Scalability of blockchain
Existing blockchain scalability solutions are classiﬁed according
to the blockchain hierarchy.
Manski [14]
Countervailing trend
Blockchain applications could exacerbate inequality.
LSE Team [16]
DLT
The potential of DLT is great but need to be assessed the
feasibility.
From the generation perspective of blockchains, we sum-
marize the common risks of the blockchain 1.0 as follows:
(a) 51% vulnerability, (b) Private key security, (c) Criminal
activity, (d) Double spending, and (d) Transaction privacy
leakage. While for blockchain 2.0, the common risks include:
(a) Criminal smart contracts, (b) Vulnerabilities in smart
contracts, (c) Under-optimized smart contracts, and (d) Under-
price operations.
Furthermore, the popular attacks towards the blockchain
include: Selﬁsh mining attacks, DAO attacks (which is also
the focus of our article), BGP hijacking attacks, Eclipse at-
tacks, Liveness attacks, and Balance attacks. Considering those
attacks, Li et al. [13] summarized the security-enhancement
solutions of the blockchain system as follows: (a) SmartPool,
(b) Quantitative framework, (c) Oyente, (d) Hawk, and (e)
Town Crier. Those solutions have made a good prediction for
the future direction of the blockchain.
2) Scalability of blockchain [15]
Similar to CAP theory in the ﬁeld of traditional dis-
tributed systems, the three important attributes of blockchain
systems, including decentralization, security, and scalability,
cannot be fulﬁlled altogether. For example, Bitcoin faces
performance problems with low throughput and high trans-
action latency. Other cryptocurrencies also face these ﬂaws,
leading researchers to pay more attention on the scalability
of blockchains. To have a clear clue about the blockchain
scalability solutions, Zhou et al. [15] attempted to overview
the related state-of-the-art studies by categorizing them accord-
ing to their blockchain hierarchy. The hierarchical structure
mainly consists of two layers. The ﬁrst-layer solution is
executed on the chain, focusing on the blockchain consensus,
networks and data structures. Such as increasing the block
size of Bitcoin blockchain, optimizing the storage scheme,
as well as adopting the sharding technology. Various im-
proved consistency algorithms, where transaction throughput
can be increased and transaction latency is decreased, are also
reviewed. The second-layer solutions seek opportunities to
extend the blockchain through the off-chain channels, side-
chain and cross-chain protocols. Basically, these solutions
have both advantages and limitations as they strive to achieve
decentralization, security, and scalability at the same time. The
insightful classiﬁcation and analysis of current solutions can
inspire further researches.
3) Countervailing trend
To our surprise, the blockchain technology also somewhat
shows a counter-trend problem. Blockchains, like other tech-
nologies, have shown a tendency to pursue different future
trajectories, depending on their implementation details. For
example, blockchain technology can help build a technology
community in which advanced exchanges, communications,
and decision-making technologies are used to aggregate, al-
locate, and manage the capital at multiple levels. However, a
series of anti-subsidy trends indicate a deepening of inequality
and democratic decline. Because technology is stratiﬁed, a
large number of employees are reduced to less disposable
population, regulation is reduced and corporate personnel are
technologized. While the mainstream trends in blockchain
technology are greatly believed as distribution, decentral-
ization and democratization, the most powerful blockchain
applications are likely to exacerbate inequality.
4) The future of the DLT
In fact, blockchain is essentially an application of the
distributed ledger technology (DLT). LSE Team [16] describes
the problem to be solved before DLT is used. The potential of
DLT is too great to ignore. Its commitment to decentralization,
data security and privacy can help improve and make public
services more affordable by reducing the role of government as
an intermediary. The decentralized and transparent properties
of the DLT lead to greater collaboration and integration with
the private and social sectors by enhancing the government’s
own transparency, accountability and inclusiveness. However,
there is no general rule book that speciﬁes where a DLT should
be deployed. If governments desire to use DLT for governance,
they need to assess the feasibility of DLT and implement the
DLT-based applications only when the beneﬁts of speed, secu-
rity and privacy outweigh the social costs. Governments must
govern in the context when the implemented DLT applications
are transparent to the underlying algorithms and ensure that
the applications truly represent public value. All these visions
will have to wait for the DLT technologies to evolve further.
B. Governance Problems and Solutions
DAO, as an application of blockchain in governance, raises
new issues about governance that are not found in conventional
blockchain. Through professional knowledge and experiments
[17], there is still existing differences between code-based
governance and blockchain-based governance. To use DAOs
in certain areas, DuPont [18] argues that DAO may simply
be a risky investment which masquerads as a new way of
doing things. Furthermore, once governance is applied in
the area of blockchains, legal problems are inevitable. In
particular, the characteristics of blockchain governance have
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER <
5
led to tensions between strict “on-chain" governance systems
and possible “off-chain" governance applications [19]. Before
The DAO attack, some lawyers expressed concerns about DAO
programs, saying that DAOs have touched on legal issues
related to security in several countries [20].
1) Fork and culture for DAO
Interpreting fork culture based on The DAO hacker event,
Tarasiewicz et al. [17] argue that a strong emphasis must be
placed on interaction and communication between institutions
and informal coding communities to further research and
develop new blends of social and organizational structures.
2) Problems with DAOs used in corporate governance
Agency theory is the dominant theory of governance con-
ﬂicts among shareholders, company managers and creditors,
in which one party entrusts the work to the other party. The
core agency conﬂict caused by the separation of ownership and
control cannot be fully resolved under the existing theoretical
and legal framework. Attempts to monitor agents are inevitably
costly and transaction costs are high.
Kaal et al. [21] point out that blockchain provides an
unprecedented solution to the agency problem in corporate
governance. DAO technology could help improve the agency
relationship, but also proposed the potential of blockchain
technology as an emerging technology of governance design,
in which many ideal models and theoretical evaluations were
limited by the real world. First of all, the blockchain is a fun-
damental technology, and its transformative impact will take
decades rather than years to establish and reform the system.
In the corporate governance environment, the application of
blockchain technology may develop in the existing centralized
structure or decentralized environment. The former requires
consensus on how and when to implement such technologies
for governance use cases. For the latter, only when a true
decentralized common blockchain emerges, with scalability
and full security, can the proxy relationships be truly removed
to overhaul them.
With the complexity of the agency relationship, human
behavior in the agency relationship needs a backstop, namely
the continuous support of human code. Without decentralized
human support for code, the immutability of the blockchain
and its cryptography security systems may not create true
transactional guarantees and trust between principals and
agents to maintain the integrity of their contractual relation-
ships.
The blockchain-based corporate governance solution in
DAO requires an incremental blockchain governance protocol.
Thus, the socially optimal hard fork rule may not be applica-
ble.
3) Problems with DAOs used in AGM
The classic Annual general Meeting (AGM) has three
functions for shareholders: information, forum and decision-
making. AGM also has important theoretical signiﬁcance in
the collective supervision of shareholders. However, AGM is
often regarded as a dull and obligatory annual ceremony, and
all three functions are actually eroded. For example, (almost)
all information is often disclosed well before the AGM. In ad-
dition to expensive shareholder voting decisions, the decision-
making function of AGM also has static annual characteris-
tics. Besides, the annual general meeting also has procedural
defects. Especially when shareholders vote remotely, there
is great uncertainty about whether the information between
shareholders and the company (including shareholder voting
records) is correctly communicated.
Lafarre et al. [22] therefore strongly call for the use of
blockchain technology to modernize the AGM. Blockchain
technology can signiﬁcantly reduce the cost of shareholder
voting and corporate organization. And it also can improve the
speed of decision-making, and promote the rapid and efﬁcient
participation of shareholders.
In calls for using blockchain technology to realize the mod-
ernization of the Annual general Meeting (AGM), however, at
the same time, Lafarre et al. [22] are also pointed out that it is
important to realize the annual general meeting of shareholders
based on blockchain will bring important legal issues. Whether
it should be abolished physical classic annual general meeting
of shareholders, or let it outside of the annual general meeting
of shareholders based on blockchain coexist? If it is desirable
to organize a decentralized AGM only on the blockchain, how
many forum functions are included in this technology? Record
dates and notice periods must be reconsidered, and the role of
intermediaries in (cross-border) chains. More importantly, are
shareholders and companies ready to participate in non-entity
meetings? Recent evidence shows that even most institutional
investors do not favor full virtualization.
4) Blockchain economy’s rethink
Following the development of blockchain, blockchain econ-
omy is on the rise, also needs new governance methods.
Blockchain and the smart contract supported by blockchain
may give birth to a new economic system, which Beck et
al. [23] call blockchain economy. The blockchain economy
goes beyond the digital economy because agreed transactions
are executed autonomously, by following rules deﬁned in
smart contracts, without the need for agency intervention
or third-party approval. They can embed digital assets or
tokens into digital representations of physical assets to enforce
autonomous contract performance. The blockchain ensures
that contracts are honored without being broken. It is in the
new form of organization as DAO that blockchain economy
will manifest itself.
Beck et al. [23] explored a DAO case, Swarm City to
explore the decision right, responsibility and incentive mecha-
nism related to governance. Decision rights involve controlling
certain assets, monitoring decisions, and have to do with ac-
countability and incentives motivate agents to take action. The
authors used a novel IT governance framework to show that
the emergence of the blockchain economy requires a rethink of
governance. Compared with the digital economy, the location
of decision-making power in the blockchain economy will
be more decentralized. The accountability system in principle
will be more and more established technically rather than
institutionally, and the consistency of incentives will become
more and more important.
Therefore, from the three governance dimensions, the
authors proposed the governance research agenda in the
blockchain economy in each dimension respectively. For ex-
ample, in the aspect the decision right, the research agenda
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER <
6
TABLE II
GOVERNANCE PROBLEMS AND SOLUTIONS
Categories
References
Recognition
Methodology
Fork
Tarasiewicz
[17]
fork and culture
The author interprets fork culture based on The DAO hacker event.
Governance
in
company
Kaal [21]
corporate
governance
Problems with DAOs used in corporate governance.
Lafarre [22]
DAO in AGM
Problems with DAOs used in corporate governance(especially AGM).
Economy
Beck [23]
Blockchain
economy
DAO could lead to blockchain economy.
Massacci [24]
security
and
economics
vulnerabilities
The failure of a security property, e.g. anonymity, can destroy a DAOs
because economic attacks can be tailgated to security attacks.
Law
Blemus [20]
blockchain laws
This paper describes blockchain regulations discussed in the US, EU
and major economic countries.
Reijers [19]
DAO in legal philos-
ophy
This paper seeks to situate the blockchain discussion within the ﬁeld of
legal philosophy, examining how legal theory can apply in the context
of blockchain governance.
Shakow [25]
DAO tax issues
This article explains how a decentralized autonomous organization
operates and interacts with the U.S. tax system.
include: (a) how to make decisions in the blockchain econ-
omy? (b) how to allocate decision management right and
decision control right? (c) how to resolve decision-making
differences in the blockchain economy? and (d) what is the
role of ownership in the blockchain economy?
The work [23] has identiﬁed an important approach to
governance research in the blockchain economy and provided
a rich foundation for further theoretical work.
5) Security and economics vulnerabilities
Traditionally, security and economics functionalities in IT
Financial services and Protocols (FinTech) have been separate
goals. Only security vulnerabilities in security-critical systems
that could be exploited by terrorists, criminals or malicious
government actors turned into security problems.
Massacci et al. [24] believe that security and economics are
crucial issues for DAOs. The DAO’s hack is essentially a com-
bination of a security vulnerability (recursive calls constantly
extract coins from The DAO) and an economic attack (The
user is only authorized to withdraw money the ﬁrst time). In
DAO Futures Exchange, on one hand, a failure of integrity
could be dramatic for the agreement. On the other hand, if
anonymity fails, futures exchange DAO may face economic
attacks combining anonymity failure and price discrimination.
Failure of security attributes, such as anonymity, can destroy
DAOs because economic attacks can be considered security
attacks. The danger is not the vulnerabilities themselves, but
the combination of an attack on software and an attack on
the economy. Economic vulnerabilities, presumably, cannot
be repaired, since the economic damage they may cause is
unlikely to be reversed by pure technology such as forks. Thus
for DAOs, economic vulnerabilities (security and economic
vulnerabilities) are indeed the new “beast" to be ignored.
6) Infancy of blockchain laws
Blockchain has become a major topic for public policy-
makers around the world. As this disruptive and decentralized
technology has become a key business issue for start-ups and
market participants, central banks and ﬁnancial regulators,
particularly in the US and EU, have shifted from initially
intense hostility to a more cautious and market-friendly stance.
Blemus et al. [20] collected and compared regulatory trends
in various applications or issues within the area of United
States, the European Union, and other key countries. These
were supported by blockchain technologies, including Bit-
coin/virtual currency/cryptocurrencies, smart contracts, decen-
tralized autonomous organizations, initial coin offering (ICO),
and others. It mainly includes three supervision projects:
(a) supervision of virtual currency, (b) supervision of ICO
(and cryptocurrency), and (c) legal validity of blockchain
technology and intelligent contract.
The conclusion shows that distributed ledger technology
regulation is in its infancy. As of 2017, when the work [20]
was published, uncertainty remains about the legal and eco-
nomic qualiﬁcations of virtual currencies, tokens, ICOs, smart
contracts and distributed ledger technologies. Predictably, over
time, the need for extensive research into blockchain technol-
ogy will become less controversial.
7) Discussion of DAO in legal philosophy
Recently, the blockchain developer community has begun
to turn its attention to governance issues. The governance
of blockchain-based systems typically consists of various
rules and procedures that can be implemented “on-chain"
and “off-chain". On-chain governance refers to the rules
and decision processes that are directly encoded into the
underlying infrastructure of blockchain-based systems. Off-
chain governance includes all other rules and decision-making
processes that may affect the operation and future development
of blockchain-based systems. The characteristics of blockchain
governance raise the issue of possible tensions between a
strict “on-chain" governance system and possible “off-chain"
governance applications.
Through investigations, Reijers et al. [19] believe that chain
governance and Kelsen’s positivist concept of legal order [26]
have a striking similarity. Blockchain-based systems become
vulnerable when private interest groups use off-chain mech-
anisms to usurp governance systems on the chain. The DAO
attack shows that while “code rules" can be formally followed
in a speciﬁc chained order, in exceptional states, sovereignty
is asserted through a chained mechanism.
As reﬂected in Kelsen’s argument, the combination of
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER <
7
private interests is a weakness of positivist legal systems, and it
can be assumed that this is an inherent weakness of governance
on the chain of existing blockchain-based systems. Given these
characteristics, future research could consider possible steps
the blockchain community could take to address abnormal
states in a manner consistent with their respective ideologies.
8) DAO tax issues
After The DAO hack, the Ethereum community voted to
create a “hard fork" for the Ethereum chain, creating two
Ethereum chains in the future. To add insult to injury, Se-
curities and Exchange Commission (SEC) used this DAO
to explain for the ﬁrst time its view that some blockchain-
related issuance would be considered securities subject to
SEC regulation. The possibility of using smart contracts to
allow entities to operate entirely autonomously on blockchain
platforms seems attractive. It is not hard to see that these
structures of DAO raise signiﬁcant tax issues. However, little
thought has been given to how such an entity would qualify
for the tax system. Thus, Shakow et al. [25] explains how a
decentralized autonomous organization operates and interacts
with the U.S. tax system by describing how a DAO works,
and raises many of the tax issues raised by these structures.
As a result, there is no evidence that DAOs have considered
being subject to various requirements under the tax code.
For those who want to comply, the easy solution is to use a
site like Overstock.com. If they don’t, they may be penalized
by the IRS. However, without international cooperation and
innovation, it is difﬁcult for tax administrators to ﬁnd out who
should tax a “DAO" income.
C. DAO Technologies and the Related Areas
It is nearly undeniable that DAO still has a certain trend
across diverse sectors such as supply chain, business, health-
care, IoT, privacy, and data management [23], [27]–[29]. The
emerging DAO is on the rise. The work of Beck et al. [23]
and other papers have discussed in the ﬁelds of blockchain
economy, crowdfunding, accounting, and even electric cars
and charging station billing systems. Especially, more than one
studies [23] [27] have found that in addition to e-government,
the blockchain in the ﬁnancial industry is also very promising.
1) Corporate Governance on Ethereum’s Blockchain
Traditionally, principals have controlled the oversight tasks
of their agents, which now can be delegated to decentralized
computer networks, with the following advantages:
• Blockchain technology provides a formal guarantee for
principals and agents involved in solving agency prob-
lems in corporate governance.
• Blockchain technology can facilitate the elimination of
agents as intermediaries in corporate governance through
code, peer-to-peer connectivity, groups, and collabora-
tion.
• DAO token holders are not affected by the existing corpo-
rate hierarchy and its restrictive effect. DAO token holder
focuses on adding value, which beneﬁts all components.
• The “work value focus of workﬂow" in DAO structure
has the potential to reform the agency relationship.
DAO technology greatly contributes to improving the efﬁ-
ciency of agency relationships and reducing agency costs by
an order of magnitude.
The purpose of Leonhard et al. [30] is to develop a virtual
corporation with a corporate structure similar to the structure
of a modern corporation. It offers a corporate governance
structure where shareholders appoint the members of a board
of directors, which then funds a Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, who
can then in turn pay salaries and acquire property on the
corporation’s behalf.
2) Blockchain Governance—A New Way of Organizing
Collaborations?
Today, many companies are investing resources to develop
and implement blockchain-based programs.
In the traditional contract governance, the effectiveness of
contract management cooperation depends on the quality of
national legal system to a large extent.
Conversely, DAO governance does not directly depend on
the enforceability of external legal systems. Enforcement in
a blockchain is achieved through prescribed code and algo-
rithms, such as smart contracts. Even more, in governance,
direct connections between collaborators are not required in a
blockchain.
Thus, blockchain may be considered the ﬁrst form of gover-
nance that truly leverages digital technology’s computational-
and data-based capabilities, well beyond traditional forms of
social governance.
DAO, like other governance mechanisms, does not govern
all types of transactions equally well.
Lumineau et al. [31] believe that DAO governance can
reduce searching, monitoring, and enforcement costs but tends,
but often means relatively high design costs.
3) eGov-DAO: A better government using blockchain
based decentralized autonomous organization
The e-government system has greatly improved the efﬁ-
ciency and transparency of the government’s daily operations.
However, most existing e-government services are provided
centrally and rely heavily on individual control. Highly cen-
tralized IT infrastructures are more vulnerable to external
attacks. Moreover, internal malicious users can easily compro-
mise data integrity. In addition, relying on individuals to mon-
itor some workﬂows makes the system error-prone and leaves
room for corruption. In fact, both government and business
services have been hacked multiple times, from ransomware to
denial-of-service attacks. To address these challenges, Diallo
et al. [32] suggest using blockchain technology and Decen-
tralized Autonomous Organization to improve e-government
systems. Diallo describes the high-level architecture of the
government DAO and gives the detailed design of a DAO e-
government system. This is the ﬁrst system to allow real-time
monitoring and analysis of e-government services. The system
retained all audit records, thereby limiting litigation between
parties, increasing the speed of contract allocation and enforce-
ment, providing transparency, accountability, immutability and
better management of the national resources of the service.
The evaluation of this system indicates that the government
DAO system faces two main threats: data integrity and rule
integrity. Besides, it can be found that modern government
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER <
8
TABLE III
DAO AND RELATED AREAS
Categories
References
Recognition
Methodology
Governance
in
company
Leonhard [30]
DAO corporation
A virtual DAO corporation with a corporate structure similar to the
structure of a modern corporation.
Lumineau [31]
DAO corporation
DAO governance works differently than traditional contractual and
relational governance.
eGov DAO
Diallo [32]
DAO
in
e-
government system
They provide a concrete use case to demonstrate the usage of DAO
e-government and evaluate its effectiveness.
Jun [33]
DAO replacing ex-
isting
social
appa-
ratuses and bureau-
cracy
Blockchain creating “absolute law" makes it possible to implement
social technology that can replace existing social apparatuses including
bureaucracy.
Economy
Akgiray [34]
DAO
tokens
and
money
The question of whether DAO tokens are money or not may can be
raised.
Zichichi [27]
crowdfunding
and
DAO, LikeStarter
LikeStarter is structured as a DAO, that fosters crowdfunding, and
recognizes the active role of donors, enabling them to support artists
or projects, while making proﬁts.
Accounting
Dai [28]
blockchain
in
ac-
counting profession
Blockchain has the potential to transform current auditing practices,
resulting in a more precise and timely automatic assurance system.
Karajovic [35]
blockchain
in
ac-
counting profession
A analysis of the implications of blockchain technology in the ac-
counting profession and its broader industry. Criticisms will be raised
to address concerns regarding blockchain’s widespread use.
Jeong [29]
billing system
This paper proposes the blockchain based billing system. The EV and
the charging station store the billing information in the blockchain and
prevent the modiﬁcation.
Voting
Zhang [36]
DAO in voting
This paper proposes a local voting mechanism based on blockchain.
work does not require much delay. We can get conclusions
that by implementing transparent and secure e-government
systems at the lowest cost, eGov DAO’s solution can help
governments save unlimited resources, manage government
businesses more effectively, and reduce the risk of providing
contracts to companies that lack the capacity to deliver.
4) Blockchain government: a next form of infrastructure
for the twenty-ﬁrst century
Today, there are hundreds of blockchain projects around
the world to transform government systems. There are signs
that blockchain is a technology directly related to social
organization. However, according to Jun et al. [33], there may
be an epistemological rejection of the idea of blockchain-
based automated systems replacing familiar public domains
such as bureaucracy. Society must accept that such a shift is
inevitable, and open discussion is needed to reduce the fear
and side effects of introducing revolutionary new technologies.
By applying Lawrence Lassig’s “code is law" proposition, the
authors of [33] suggested that ﬁve principles should be fol-
lowed when replacing bureaucracy with blockchain system: a)
Introducing blockchain regulations; b) Transparent disclosure
of data and source code; c) Implement independent executive
management; d) Establish a governance system based on direct
democracy; e) Make distributed autonomous government. Jun
et al.’ proposed blockchain feature, which creates inviolable
“absolute laws", makes it possible to implement social tech-
nologies that can replace existing social institutions, including
bureaucracy.
5) The Potential for Blockchain Technology in Corporate
Governance
Traditional platforms are rapidly becoming obsolete and the
trend is towards open platforms for ﬁnancial services. Tech
companies are starting to offer simple but disruptive ﬁnancial
services. In response, big ﬁnancial ﬁrms are partnering with
tech companies to maintain their market power.
Akgiray et al. [34] discuss the latest applications of
blockchain technology in ﬁnancial services and outlined reg-
ulatory responses. Economists consider money to have three
basic functions: a medium of exchange, a unit of account, and
a store of value. It is easy to imagine a variety of DAO tokens
in the ﬁnancial world, because transactions are expressed in
real currencies or digital currencies (Alipay, Apple Pay, etc.),
and expressed in real money.
Therefore, Akgiray et al. [34] argue, if the tokens on the
DAO can fulﬁll the three functions of money, then the question
of whether it is money or not can be raised.
6) LikeStarter: a Smart-contract based Social DAO for
Crowdfunding
Social media platforms are recognized as important media
for the global transmission and dissemination of informa-
tion. The combination of social interaction and crowdfunding
represents a powerful symbiotic relationship. On the other
hand, blockchain technology has revolutionized the way we
think about the Internet. So Zichichi et al. [27] introduced
LikeStarter, a social network where users can raise money for
other users through simple “like" on the Ethereum blockchain.
LikeStarter is built on the Ethereum blockchain, structured as a
DAO that promotes crowdfunding without any central agency
intervention and uses smart contracts to control and manage
money. Zichichi et al. [27] have used a case-study to show
that LikeStarter successfully makes it easy for people to get
funding and reach as many people as possible.
7) Toward blockchain-based accounting and assurance
Since 2009, blockchain has become a potentially transfor-
mative information technology that promises to be as revolu-
tionary as the Internet. Accounting and insurance could be one
of the industries where blockchain could bring huge beneﬁts
and fundamentally change the current model. However, the
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER <
9
potential beneﬁts and challenges that blockchain could bring
to accounting and assurance remain to be explored.
For this reason, Dai et al. [28] proposed an accounting
and assurance method (an accounting ecosystem that supports
blockchain, real-time, veriﬁable and transparent) based on the
reference of multiple disciplines and ideas of the accounting
industry. This method will provide real-time, veriﬁable infor-
mation disclosure and step by step automation. As a result,
blockchain can be used as a tool to verify any information
related to auditing. However, it is worth pondering how
to adapt the existing blockchain mechanism to the ﬁeld of
accounting and auditing. The insights of Dai et al. [28] will
help integrate blockchain into the existing business processes
and facilitate the transformation of the current audit model to
the next generation.
8) Thinking
outside
the
block:
Projected
phases
of
blockchain integration in the accounting industry
The rapid growth of blockchain has sparked curiosity across
the industry, leading to talks about setting up a blockchain
consortium in accounting. Accountancy ﬁrms such as PwC,
Deloitte, EY and KPMG have pledged to integrate blockchain
into their ﬁnancial services. Innovative products such as Vul-
can (for managing digital assets), Rubix (for improving supply
change management), editable blockchain and blockchain as
a service are among there. Karajovic et al. [35] conducted an
in-depth and detailed analysis on the application of blockchain
technology in the accounting profession. As block linking
becomes more mainstream, the technique can be used to
simplify many redundant and vulnerable accounting practices.
While the initial cost of developing and integrating blockchain
infrastructure can be high, this can be offset by the cost
savings it brings to the enterprise in terms of long-term,
improved efﬁciency. Karajovicet al.’s philosophical analysis of
the technology’s application illustrates many questions about
the uncertain relationship between accounting and blockchain.
While the technology has the potential to reshape entire
capital markets, the social and political barriers to blockchain
proliferation need to be looked at critically. But one thing is
certain: accounting is just one block in the chain that is being
dramatically redeﬁned by this disruptive technology.
9) Blockchain based billing system for electric vehicle and
charging station
DAO can also be used in the charging system. The charging
results measured in the charging electric vehicles may differ
from the amount claimed in the charging station. This is
because electric vehicles and charging station measure the
charge amount with their own measurement equipment. If the
electric vehicles or charging station provide fault information,
the billing may be invalid. In addition, billing information
can be manipulated. To prevent these problems, Jeong et al.
[29] proposed a blockchain-based billing system. After mutual
authentication, electric cars and charging stations both store
billing information in the blockchain. A DAO is a system
where all nodes have the same ledger, thus the ledger data
cannot be tampered. Jeong et al. have shown that the system
prevents users from modifying their records after electric
vehicles have been charged.
10) A privacy-preserving voting protocol on blockchains
Voting is a universal phenomenon and to some extent is
part of various societies. As the technology matures and more
voting is expected in the future, there is an urgent need for
a local voting mechanism built directly on the blockchain
network to decentralize and dis-intermediate the network.
Zhang et al. [36] argue that the need for this voting mechanism
is not limited to public blockchain networks, but also applies
to syndicate-licensed blockchain networks.
In this regard, the authors categorized and summarized ex-
isting voting systems, and proposed a local voting mechanism
based on blockchain to facilitate the decision-making of nodes
in the blockchain network. The core idea is (a) distribution
voting, (b) distributed tally, and (c) cryptography-based ver-
iﬁcation. The implementation on the Hyperledger structure
shows that the protocol is feasible for small and medium-sized
voting issues. The agreement protects the privacy of voters and
allows for the detection and correction of cheating without any
credible parties.
IV. OPEN ISSUES
According to Diallo et al. [32], we can see that although
The DAO project was abolished, the future of Ethereum is
bright. In the future, research on DAO can start from the
following aspects. To help gain a quick clue, we propose
several questions here.
Based on the system design of the blockchain itself, the
ﬁrst question is how to optimize and handle the performance
trilemma, i.e., decentralization, security and scalability, in a
balanced way in the context of DAO? Secondly, a better
blockchain system and the evaluation tool of blockchain
security-enhancement solutions are anticipated for DAO. Fur-
thermore, the feasibility of those blockchain system and eval-
uation tool needs to be assessed, because the governance is
possible only if the beneﬁts of efﬁciency, security and privacy
of DAO exceed the social costs. Thus, another questions is how
to reduce the social costs such that the feasibility of DAO can
be improved.
From the operation perspective of DAO, we have the
following concerns.
• Only depending on the social-optimal hard-fork rule is
not applicable. The corporate governance solution based
on DAO needs to propose new protocols for blockchain
governance.
• Leveraging DAO, it is necessary to create the trust of
real transactions, thus maintaining the integrity of its
contractual relationship.
• While “code rules" can be formally followed on a partic-
ular chain. In exceptional states, sovereignty is asserted
through an off-chain mechanism. This requires the study
of possible actions, which are taken by the blockchain
community to address anomalies in the ways that are
consistent with their respective ideologies.
• Legal issues related to DAOs need to be taken into
account, such as how an entity should comply with the
tax system.
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER <
10
• Researchers need to explore the ultimate impact of DAO
on human beings. The most powerful blockchain applica-
tions are likely to exacerbate inequality. Both researchers
and engineers shall think about how to avoid and solve
this issue.
All of the mentioned concerns require a strong emphasis
on interaction and communication between institutions and
informal coding communities, thus it can help further research
and develop new integration of social and organizational
structures.
Currently, people are still maintaining a high expectation on
DAO. Governments around the world are betting that it will
change the way they govern [37]. For example, Dubai [38]
sets a goal to ensure that by 2020 all government documents
are stored in the blockchains. Other governments are studying
its potential applicability in central banking, electronic voting,
identity management and registry management. Blockchain
transforms government operations to inspire new service de-
livery models for governments [39].
DAO is believed to have many advantages over existing
solutions. With the emergence of Ethereum Classic [40] and
the incredible pace of new development, the platform is
becoming matured [41]. In the infancy stage of DAO, smart
contracts are bound to cause vulnerabilities like The DAO
attack, which will lead to better code checking mechanisms
and secure coding practices to avoid such pitfalls. In the future,
not only may it be possible to establish full-ﬂedged DAOs in
multiple ﬁelds, it is also very likely to establish a uniﬁed single
currency platform leveraging the technologies of DAO.
V. CONCLUSION
DAO is viewed as a very promising paradigm for our future
decentralized organizational solutions. This article reviews
the most recent research activities on both academic and
engineering scenarios, which basically include the governance
problems and solutions, and typical DAO technologies and
the related areas. We hope that this overview can help re-
searchers and engineers to identify the state-of-the-art studies
of blockchain-based DAO.
REFERENCES
[1] V. Dhillon, D. Metcalf, and M. Hooper, “The dao hacked,” in Blockchain
Enabled Applications.
Springer, 2017, pp. 67–78.
[2] F. Casino, T. K. Dasaklis, and C. Patsakis, “A systematic literature review
of blockchain-based applications: current status, classiﬁcation and open
issues,” Telematics and Informatics, vol. 36, pp. 55–81, 2019.
[3] V. Buterin et al., “Ethereum white paper: a next generation smart
contract & decentralized application platform,” First version, vol. 53,
2014.
[4] G. Wood et al., “Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transac-
tion ledger,” Ethereum project yellow paper, vol. 151, pp. 1–32, 2014.
[5] P. Nobels, “Building the lisk dao project,” https://lisk.io/blog/apps/
building-lisk-dao-project.
[6] “Aragon,” Accessed on 2020. [Online]. Available: https://aragon.org/
[7] “Colony,” 2020. [Online]. Available: https://colony.io/
[8] “DAOstack,” 2020. [Online]. Available: https://daostack.io/
[9] F. Santos and V. Kostakis, “The dao: a million dollar lesson in blockchain
governance,” School of Business and Governance, Ragnar Nurkse De-
partment of Innovation and Governance, 2018.
[10] H. Chen, M. Pendleton, L. Njilla, and S. Xu, “A survey on ethereum sys-
tems security: Vulnerabilities, attacks, and defenses,” ACM Computing
Surveys (CSUR), vol. 53, no. 3, pp. 1–43, 2020.
[11] U. Mukhopadhyay, A. Skjellum, O. Hambolu, J. Oakley, L. Yu, and
R. Brooks, “A brief survey of cryptocurrency systems,” in 2016 14th
Annual Conference on Privacy, Security and Trust (PST), 2016, pp. 745–
752.
[12] M. Conti, E. Sandeep Kumar, C. Lal, and S. Ruj, “A survey on security
and privacy issues of bitcoin,” IEEE Communications Surveys Tutorials,
vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 3416–3452, 2018.
[13] X. Li, P. Jiang, T. Chen, X. Luo, and Q. Wen, “A survey on the security
of blockchain systems,” Future Generation Computer Systems, 2017.
[14] S. Manski, “Building the blockchain world: Technological common-
wealth or just more of the same?” Strategic Change, vol. 26, no. 5,
pp. 511–522, 2017.
[15] Q. Zhou, H. Huang, Z. Zheng, and J. Bian, “Solutions to scalability of
blockchain: A survey,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 16 440–16 455, 2020.
[16] L. M. of Public Administration Capstone Team. [Online]. Available:
https://www.centreforpublicimpact.org/building-on-blockchain/
[17] M. Tarasiewicz, “Forking as cultural practice: Institutional governance
after the dao.”
[18] Q. DuPont, “Experiments in algorithmic governance: A history and
ethnography of “the dao,” a failed decentralized autonomous organi-
zation,” in Bitcoin and Beyond (Open Access).
Routledge, 2017, pp.
157–177.
[19] W. Reijers, I. Wuisman, M. Mannan, P. De Filippi, C. Wray, V. Rae-
Looi, A. C. Vélez, and L. Orgad, “Now the code runs itself: On-chain
and off-chain governance of blockchain technologies,” Topoi, pp. 1–11,
2018.
[20] S. Blemus, “Law and blockchain: A legal perspective on current
regulatory trends worldwide,” Revue Trimestrielle de Droit Financier
(Corporate Finance and Capital Markets Law Review) RTDF, no. 4-
2017, 2017.
[21] W. A. Kaal, “Blockchain solutions for agency problems in corporate gov-
ernance,” ECONOMIC INFORMATION TO FACILITATE DECISION
MAKING, EDITED BOOK, EDITOR-KASHI R. BALACHANDRAN,
WORLD SCIENTIFIC PUBLISHERS (2019), 2019.
[22] A. Lafarre and C. Van der Elst, “Blockchain technology for corporate
governance and shareholder activism,” European Corporate Governance
Institute (ECGI)-Law Working Paper, no. 390, 2018.
[23] R. Beck, C. Müller-Bloch, and J. L. King, “Governance in the blockchain
economy: A framework and research agenda,” Journal of the Association
for Information Systems, vol. 19, no. 10, p. 1, 2018.
[24] F. Massacci, C. N. Ngo, J. Nie, D. Venturi, and J. Williams, “The
seconomics (security-economics) vulnerabilities of decentralized au-
tonomous organizations,” in Cambridge International Workshop on
Security Protocols.
Springer, 2017, pp. 171–179.
[25] D. J. Shakow, “The tao of the dao: Taxing an entity that lives on a
blockchain,” Tax Notes, vol. 160, pp. 18–23, 2018.
[26] M. P. Golding, “Kelsen and the concept of „legal system” 1,” Archiv für
Rechts-und Sozialphilosophie, vol. 47, pp. 355–386, 1961.
[27] M. Zichichi, M. Contu, S. Ferretti, and G. D’Angelo, “Likestarter: a
smart-contract based social dao for crowdfunding,” in IEEE INFOCOM
2019-IEEE Conference on Computer Communications Workshops (IN-
FOCOM WKSHPS).
IEEE, 2019, pp. 313–318.
[28] J. Dai and M. A. Vasarhelyi, “Toward blockchain-based accounting and
assurance,” Journal of Information Systems, vol. 31, no. 3, pp. 5–21,
2017.
[29] S. Jeong, N.-N. Dao, Y. Lee, C. Lee, and S. Cho, “Blockchain based
billing system for electric vehicle and charging station,” in 2018 Tenth
International Conference on Ubiquitous and Future Networks (ICUFN).
IEEE, 2018, pp. 308–310.
[30] R. Leonhard, “Corporate governance on ethereum’s blockchain,” Avail-
able at SSRN 2977522, 2017.
[31] F. Lumineau, W. Wang, and O. Schilke, “Blockchain governance—a
new way of organizing collaborations?” Organization Science, 2020.
[32] N. Diallo, W. Shi, L. Xu, Z. Gao, L. Chen, Y. Lu, N. Shah, L. Car-
ranco, T.-C. Le, A. B. Surez et al., “egov-dao: A better government
using blockchain based decentralized autonomous organization,” in 2018
International Conference on eDemocracy & eGovernment (ICEDEG).
IEEE, 2018, pp. 166–171.
[33] M. Jun, “Blockchain government-a next form of infrastructure for the
twenty-ﬁrst century,” Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market,
and Complexity, vol. 4, no. 1, p. 7, 2018.
[34] V. Akgiray, “The potential for blockchain technology in corporate
governance,” 2019.
[35] M. Karajovic, H. M. Kim, and M. Laskowski, “Thinking outside the
block: Projected phases of blockchain integration in the accounting
industry,” Australian Accounting Review, vol. 29, no. 2, pp. 319–330,
2019.
> REPLACE THIS LINE WITH YOUR PAPER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER <
11
[36] W. Zhang, Y. Yuan, Y. Hu, S. Huang, S. Cao, A. Chopra, and S. Huang,
“A privacy-preserving voting protocol on blockchain,” in 2018 IEEE
11th International Conference on Cloud Computing (CLOUD).
IEEE,
2018, pp. 401–408.
[37] A. Alketbi, Q. Nasir, and M. A. Talib, “Blockchain for government
services — use cases, security beneﬁts and challenges,” in 2018 15th
Learning and Technology Conference (L T), 2018, pp. 112–119.
[38] C.
Whiteoak,
“Smart
dubai
close
to
rolling
out
20
blockchain-based
services,”
https://www.thenational.ae/business/
smart-dubai-close-to-rolling-out-20-blockchain-based-services-1.
695280.
[39] A. Alketbi, Q. Nasir, and M. A. Talib, “Novel blockchain reference
model for government services: Dubai government case study,” Interna-
tional Journal of System Assurance Engineering and Management, pp.
1–22, 2020.
[40] D. Vujiˇci´c, D. Jagodi´c, and S. Ran ¯di´c, “Blockchain technology, bitcoin,
and ethereum: A brief overview,” in 2018 17th International Symposium
INFOTEH-JAHORINA (INFOTEH), 2018, pp. 1–6.
[41] K. Jones, “Blockchain in or as governance? evolutions in experimen-
tation, social impacts, and preﬁgurative practice in the blockchain and
dao space,” Information Polity, no. Preprint, pp. 1–18, 2019.
Lu Liu is currently an undergraduate with the
School of Computer Science and Engineering, Sun
Yat-Sen University, China. Her research interests
include blockchain and ﬁnancial big data.
Sicong Zhou is currently a master-program student
with the School of Computer Science and Engineer-
ing, Sun Yat-Sen University, China. His research
interests mainly include distributed learning and
blockchain performance optimization.
Huawei Huang (M’16) is currently an Associate
Professor with Sun Yat-Sen University, China. He
earned his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science and
Engineering from the University of Aizu (Japan) in
2016. His research interests include blockchain and
distributed computing. He has served as a Research
Fellow of JSPS (2016-2018); a visiting scholar with
Hong Kong Polytechnic University (2017-2018); an
Assistant Professor with Kyoto University, Japan
(2018-2019). He received the best paper award from
TrustCom2016. He is a member of ACM.
ZIBIN ZHENG received the Ph.D. degree from the
Chinese University of Hong Kong, in 2011. He is
currently a Professor at School of Computer Science
and Engineering with Sun Yat-sen University, China.
He serves as Chairman of the Software Engineering
Department. He published over 120 international
journal and conference papers, including 3 ESI
highly cited papers. According to Google Scholar,
his papers have more than 9600 citations, with
an H-index of 46. His research interests include
blockchain, services computing, software engineer-
ing, and ﬁnancial big data. He was a recipient of several awards, including
the Top 50 Inﬂuential Papers in Blockchain of 2018, the ACM SIGSOFT
Distinguished Paper Award at ICSE2010, the Best Student Paper Award at
ICWS2010. He served as BlockSys’19 and CollaborateCom’16 General Co-
Chair, SC2’19, ICIOT’18 and IoV’14 PC Co-Chair.
