# Constitution of the State of Wyoming
# Source: https://wyoleg.gov/statutes/compress/title97.pdf
# Retrieved: 2026-03-24
# Status: Public domain / public law

TITLE 97 - WYOMING CONSTITUTION 
 
ARTICLE 1 - DECLARATION OF RIGHTS 
 
Article 1, Section 1  Power inherent in the people. 
 
All power is inherent in the people, and all free governments 
are founded on their authority, and instituted for their peace, 
safety and happiness; for the advancement of these ends they 
have at all times an inalienable and indefeasible right to 
alter, reform or abolish the government in such manner as they 
may think proper. 
 
Article 1, Section 2  Equality of all. 
 
In their inherent right to life, liberty and the pursuit of 
happiness, all members of the human race are equal. 
 
Article 1, Section 3  Equal political rights. 
 
Since equality in the enjoyment of natural and civil rights is 
only made sure through political equality, the laws of this 
state affecting the political rights and privileges of its 
citizens shall be without distinction of race, color, sex, or 
any circumstance or condition whatsoever other than individual 
incompetency, or unworthiness duly ascertained by a court of 
competent jurisdiction. 
 
Article 1, Section 4  Security against search and seizure. 
 
The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, 
papers and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures 
shall not be violated, and no warrant shall issue but upon 
probable cause, supported by affidavit, particularly describing 
the place to be searched or the person or thing to be seized. 
 
Article 1, Section 5  Imprisonment for debt. 
 
No person shall be imprisoned for debt, except in cases of 
fraud. 
 
Article 1, Section 6  Due process of law. 
 
No person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property without 
due process of law. 
 
Article 1, Section 7  No absolute, arbitrary power. 
 
Absolute, arbitrary power over the lives, liberty and property 
of freemen exists nowhere in a republic, not even in the largest 
majority. 
 
Article 1, Section 8  Courts open to all; suits against 
state. 
 
All courts shall be open and every person for an injury done to 
person, reputation or property shall have justice administered 
without sale, denial or delay. Suits may be brought against the 
state in such manner and in such courts as the legislature may 
by law direct. 
 
Article 1, Section 9  Trial by jury inviolate. 
 
The right of trial by jury shall remain inviolate in criminal 
cases. A jury in civil cases and in criminal cases where the 
charge is a misdemeanor may consist of less than twelve (12) 
persons but not less than six (6), as may be prescribed by law.  
A grand jury may consist of twelve (12) persons, any nine (9) of 
whom concurring may find an indictment.  The legislature may 
change, regulate or abolish the grand jury system. 
 
Article 1, Section 10  Right of accused to defend. 
 
In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have the right to 
defend in person and by counsel, to demand the nature and cause 
of the accusation, to have a copy thereof, to be confronted with 
the witnesses against him, to have compulsory process served for 
obtaining witnesses, and to a speedy trial by an impartial jury 
of the county or district in which the offense is alleged to 
have been committed.  When the location of the offense cannot be 
established with certainty, venue may be placed in the county or 
district where the corpus delecti [delicti] is found, or in any 
county or district in which the victim was transported. 
 
Article 1, Section 11  Self-incrimination; jeopardy. 
 
No person shall be compelled to testify against himself in any 
criminal case, nor shall any person be twice put in jeopardy for 
the same offense. If a jury disagree, or if the judgment be 
arrested after a verdict, or if the judgment be reversed for 
error in law, the accused shall not be deemed to have been in 
jeopardy. 
 
Article 1, Section 12  Detaining witnesses. 
 
No person shall be detained as a witness in any criminal 
prosecution longer than may be necessary to take his testimony 
or deposition, nor be confined in any room where criminals are 
imprisoned. 
 
Article 1, Section 13  Indictment. 
 
Until otherwise provided by law, no person shall, for a felony, 
be proceeded against criminally, otherwise than by indictment, 
except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the 
militia when in actual service in time of war or public danger. 
 
Article 1, Section 14  Bail; cruel and unusual punishment. 
 
All persons shall be bailable by sufficient sureties, except for 
capital offenses when the proof is evident or the presumption 
great. Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines 
imposed, nor shall cruel or unusual punishment be inflicted. 
 
Article 1, Section 15  Penal code to be humane. 
 
The penal code shall be framed on the humane principles of 
reformation and prevention. 
 
Article 1, Section 16  Conduct of jails. 
 
No person arrested and confined in jail shall be treated with 
unnecessary rigor. The erection of safe and comfortable prisons, 
and inspection of prisons, and the humane treatment of prisoners 
shall be provided for. 
 
Article 1, Section 17  Habeas corpus. 
 
The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be 
suspended unless, when in case of rebellion or invasion the 
public safety may require it. 
 
Article 1, Section 18  Religious liberty. 
 
The free exercise and enjoyment of religious profession and 
worship without discrimination or preference shall be forever 
guaranteed in this state, and no person shall be rendered 
incompetent to hold any office of trust or profit, or to serve 
as a witness or juror, because of his opinion on any matter of 
religious belief whatever; but the liberty of conscience hereby 
secured shall not be so construed as to excuse acts of 
licentiousness or justify practices inconsistent with the peace 
or safety of the state. 
 
Article 1, Section 19  Appropriations for sectarian or 
religious societies or institutions prohibited. 
 
No money of the state shall ever be given or appropriated to any 
sectarian or religious society or institution. 
 
Article 1, Section 20  Freedom of speech and press; libel; 
truth a defense. 
 
Every person may freely speak, write and publish on all 
subjects, being responsible for the abuse of that right; and in 
all trials for libel, both civil and criminal, the truth, when 
published with good intent and [for] justifiable ends, shall be 
a sufficient defense, the jury having the right to determine the 
facts and the law, under direction of the court. 
 
Article 1, Section 21  Right of petition and peaceable 
assembly. 
 
The right of petition, and of the people peaceably to assemble 
to consult for the common good, and to make known their 
opinions, shall never be denied or abridged. 
 
Article 1, Section 22  Protection of labor. 
 
The rights of labor shall have just protection through laws 
calculated to secure to the laborer proper rewards for his 
service and to promote the industrial welfare of the state. 
 
Article 1, Section 23  Education. 
 
The right of the citizens to opportunities for education should 
have practical recognition. The legislature shall suitably 
encourage means and agencies calculated to advance the sciences 
and liberal arts. 
 
Article 1, Section 24  Right to bear arms. 
 
The right of citizens to bear arms in defense of themselves and 
of the state shall not be denied. 
 
Article 1, Section 25  Military subordinate to civil power; 
quartering soldiers. 
 
The military shall ever be in strict subordination to the civil 
power. No soldier in time of peace shall be quartered in any 
house without consent of the owner, nor in time of war except in 
the manner prescribed by law. 
 
Article 1, Section 26  Treason. 
 
Treason against the state shall consist only in levying war 
against it, or in adhering to its enemies, or in giving them aid 
and comfort. No person shall be convicted of treason unless on 
the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or on 
confession in open court; nor shall any person be attained of 
treason by the legislature. 
 
Article 1, Section 27  Elections free and equal. 
 
Elections shall be open, free and equal, and no power, civil or 
military, shall at any time interfere to prevent an untrammeled 
exercise of the right of suffrage. 
 
Article 1, Section 28  Taxation; consent of people; 
uniformity and equality. 
 
No tax shall be imposed without the consent of the people or 
their authorized representatives. 
 
Article 1, Section 29  Rights of aliens. 
 
No distinction shall ever be made by law between resident aliens 
and citizens as to the possession, taxation, enjoyment and 
descent of property. 
 
Article 1, Section 30  Monopolies and perpetuities 
prohibited. 
 
Perpetuities and monopolies are contrary to the genius of a free 
state, and shall not be allowed. Corporations being creatures of 
the state, endowed for the public good with a portion of its 
sovereign powers, must be subject to its control. 
 
Article 1, Section 31  Control of water. 
 
Water being essential to industrial prosperity, of limited 
amount, and easy of diversion from its natural channels, its 
control must be in the state, which, in providing for its use, 
shall equally guard all the various interests involved. 
 
Article 1, Section 32  Eminent domain. 
 
Private property shall not be taken for private use unless by 
consent of the owner, except for private ways of necessity, and 
for reservoirs, drains, flumes or ditches on or across the lands 
of others for agricultural, mining, milling, domestic or 
sanitary purposes, nor in any case without due compensation. 
 
Article 1, Section 33  Compensation for property taken. 
 
Private property shall not be taken or damaged for public or 
private use without just compensation. 
 
Article 1, Section 34  Uniform operation of general law. 
 
All laws of a general nature shall have a uniform operation. 
 
Article 1, Section 35  Ex post facto laws; impairing 
obligation of contracts. 
 
No ex post facto law, nor any law impairing the obligation of 
contracts, shall ever be made. 
 
Article 1, Section 36  Rights not enumerated reserved to 
people. 
 
The enumeration in this constitution, of certain rights shall 
not be construed to deny, impair, or disparage others retained 
by the people. 
 
Article 1, Section 37  Constitution of United States 
supreme law of land. 
 
The State of Wyoming is an inseparable part of the federal 
union, and the constitution of the United States is the supreme 
law of the land. 
 
Article 1, Section 38  Right of health care access. 
 
(a)  Each competent adult shall have the right to make his 
or her own health care decisions. The parent, guardian or legal 
representative of any other natural person shall have the right 
to make health care decisions for that person. 
 
(b)  Any person may pay, and a health care provider may 
accept, direct payment for health care without imposition of 
penalties or fines for doing so. 
 
(c)  The legislature may determine reasonable and necessary 
restrictions on the rights granted under this section to protect 
the health and general welfare of the people or to accomplish 
the other purposes set forth in the Wyoming Constitution. 
 
(d)  The state of Wyoming shall act to preserve these 
rights from undue governmental infringement. 
 
Article 1, Section 39  Opportunity to hunt, fish and trap. 
 
The opportunity to fish, hunt and trap wildlife is a heritage 
that shall forever be preserved to the individual citizens of 
the state, subject to regulation as prescribed by law, and does 
not create a right to trespass on private property, diminish 
other private rights or alter the duty of the state to manage 
wildlife. 
 
ARTICLE 2 - DISTRIBUTION OF POWERS 
 
Article 2, Section 1  Powers of government divided into 
three departments. 
 
The powers of the government of this state are divided into 
three distinct departments: The legislative, executive and 
judicial, and no person or collection of persons charged with 
the exercise of powers properly belonging to one of these 
departments shall exercise any powers properly belonging to 
either of the others, except as in this constitution expressly 
directed or permitted. 
 
ARTICLE 3 - LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 
 
Article 3, Section 1  Composition and name of legislature. 
 
The legislative power shall be vested in a senate and house of 
representatives, which shall be designated "the legislature of 
the State of Wyoming." 
 
Article 3, Section 2  Members' terms and qualifications. 
 
Senators shall be elected for the term of four (4) years and 
representatives for the term of two (2) years. The senators 
elected at the first election shall be divided by lot into two 
classes as nearly equal as may be. The seats of senators of the 
first class shall be vacated at the expiration of the first two 
years, and of the second class at the expiration of four years. 
No person shall be a senator who has not attained the age of 
twenty-five years, or a representative who has not attained the 
age of twenty-one years, and who is not a citizen of the United 
States and of this state and who has not, for at least twelve 
months next preceding his election resided within the county or 
district in which he was elected. 
 
Article 3, Section 3  Legislative apportionment. 
 
Each county shall constitute a senatorial and representative 
district; the senate and house of representatives shall be 
composed of members elected by the legal voters of the counties 
respectively, every two (2) years. They shall be apportioned 
among the said counties as nearly as may be according to the 
number of their inhabitants. Each county shall have at least one 
senator and one representative; but at no time shall the number 
of members of the house of representatives be less than twice 
nor greater than three times the number of members of the 
senate. The senate and house of representatives first elected in 
pursuance of this constitution shall consist of sixteen and 
thirty-three members respectively. 
 
Article 3, Section 4  Vacancies. [Repealed.] 
 
Article 3, Section 5  When members elected and terms begin. 
 
Members of the senate and house of representatives shall be 
elected on the day provided by law for the general election of a 
member of congress, and their term of office shall begin on the 
first Monday of January thereafter. 
 
Article 3, Section 6  Compensation of members; duration of 
sessions. 
 
The legislature shall not meet for more than sixty (60) 
legislative working days excluding Sundays during the term for 
which members of the house of representatives are elected, 
except when called into special session. The legislature shall 
determine by statute the number of days not to exceed sixty (60) 
legislative working days to be devoted to general and budget 
session, respectively. The legislature shall meet on odd-
numbered years for a general and budget session. The legislature 
may meet on even-numbered years for budget session. During the 
budget session no bills except the budget bill may be introduced 
unless placed on call by a two-thirds vote of either house. The 
legislature shall meet for no more than forty (40) legislative 
working days excluding Sundays in any (1) calendar year, except 
when called into special session. The compensation of the 
members of the legislature shall be as provided by law; but no 
legislature shall fix its own compensation. 
 
Article 3, Section 7  Time and place of sessions. 
 
(a)  The legislature shall meet at the seat of government 
at twelve o'clock noon, on the second Tuesday of January of the 
odd-numbered years for general and budget session and may meet 
on the second Tuesday of January of the even-numbered years for 
budget session, and at other times when convened by the governor 
or upon call of the legislature as herein provided. The governor 
by proclamation may also, in times of war or grave emergency by 
law defined, temporarily convene the legislature at a place or 
places other than the seat of government. The legislature may 
convene a special session not to last longer than twenty (20) 
working days as follows: 
 
(i)  Upon written request to the presiding officer of 
each house of the legislature by a majority of the elected 
members of each house, the legislature shall convene in special 
session; or 
 
(ii)  The presiding officers of each house shall also 
jointly call a special session for the purpose of resolving a 
challenge or a dispute of any kind in the determination of the 
presidential electors. 
 
Article 3, Section 8  Members disqualified for other 
office. 
 
No senator or representative shall, during the term for which he 
was elected, be appointed to any civil office under the state, 
and no member of congress or other person holding an office 
(except that of notary public or an office in the militia) under 
the United States or this state, shall be a member of either 
house during his continuance in office. 
 
Article 3, Section 9  Compensation not to be increased 
during term. 
 
No member of either house shall, during the term for which he 
was elected, receive any increase of salary or mileage under any 
law passed during that term. 
 
Article 3, Section 10  Presiding officers; other officers; 
each house to judge of election and qualifications of its 
members. 
 
The senate shall, at the beginning and close of each regular 
session and at such other times as may be necessary, elect one 
of its members president; the house of representatives shall 
elect one of its members speaker; each house shall choose its 
other officers, and shall judge of the election returns and 
qualifications of its members. 
 
Article 3, Section 11  Quorum. 
 
A majority of each house shall constitute a quorum to do 
business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day, and 
compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and under 
such penalties as each house may prescribe. 
 
Article 3, Section 12  Rules, punishment and protection. 
 
Each house shall have power to determine the rules of its 
proceedings, and [to] punish its members or other persons for 
contempt or disorderly behavior in its presence; to protect its 
members against violence or offers of bribes or private 
solicitation, and with the concurrence of two-thirds, to expel a 
member, and shall have all other powers necessary to the 
legislature of a free state. A member expelled for corruption 
shall not thereafter be eligible to either house of the 
legislature, and punishment for contempt or disorderly behavior 
shall not bar a criminal prosecution for the same offense. 
 
Article 3, Section 13  Journals. 
 
Each house shall keep a journal of its proceedings and may, in 
its discretion, from time to time, publish the same, except such 
parts as require secrecy, and the yeas and nays on any question, 
shall, at the request of any two members, be entered on the 
journal. 
 
Article 3, Section 14  Sessions to be open. 
 
The sessions of each house and of the committee of the whole 
shall be open unless the business is such as requires secrecy. 
 
Article 3, Section 15  Adjournment. 
 
Neither house shall, without the consent of the other, adjourn 
for more than three days, nor to any other place than that in 
which the two houses shall be sitting. 
 
Article 3, Section 16  Privilege of members. 
 
The members of the legislature shall, in all cases, except 
treason, felony, violation of their oath of office and breach of 
the peace, be privileged from arrest during their attendance at 
the sessions of their respective houses, and in going to and 
returning from the same; and for any speech or debate in either 
house they shall not be questioned in any other place. 
 
Article 3, Section 17  Power of impeachment; proceedings. 
 
The sole power of impeachment shall vest in the house of 
representatives; the concurrence of a majority of all the 
members being necessary to the exercise thereof. Impeachment 
shall be tried by the senate sitting for that purpose, and the 
senators shall be upon oath or affirmation to do justice 
according to law and evidence. When the governor is on trial, 
the chief justice of the supreme court shall preside. No person 
shall be convicted without a concurrence of two-thirds of the 
senators elected. 
 
Article 3, Section 18  Who may be impeached. 
 
The governor and other state and judicial officers except 
justices of the peace, shall be liable to impeachment for high 
crimes and misdemeanors, or malfeasance in office, but judgment 
in such cases shall only extend to removal from office and 
disqualification to hold any office of honor, trust or profit 
under the laws of the state. The party, whether convicted or 
acquitted, shall, nevertheless, be liable to prosecution, trial, 
judgment and punishment according to law. 
 
Article 3, Section 19  Removal of officers not subject to 
impeachment. 
 
Except as hereafter provided, all officers not liable to 
impeachment shall be subject to removal for misconduct or 
malfeasance in office as provided by law.  Any person appointed 
by the governor to serve as head of a state agency, or division 
thereof, or to serve as a member of a state board or commission, 
may be removed by the governor as provided by law. 
 
Article 3, Section 20  Laws to be passed by bill; 
alteration or amendment of bills. 
 
No law shall be passed except by bill, and no bill shall be so 
altered or amended on its passage through either house as to 
change its original purpose. 
 
Article 3, Section 21  Enacting clause of law. 
 
The enacting clause of every law shall be as follows: "Be it 
Enacted by the Legislature of the State of Wyoming." 
 
Article 3, Section 22  Limitation on time for introducing 
bill for appropriation. 
 
No bill for the appropriation of money, except for the expenses 
of the government, shall be introduced within five (5) days of 
the close of the session, except by unanimous consent of the 
house in which it is sought to be introduced. 
 
Article 3, Section 23  Bill must go to committee. 
 
No bill shall be considered or become a law unless referred to a 
committee, returned therefrom and printed for the use of the 
members. 
 
Article 3, Section 24  Bill to contain only one subject, 
which shall be expressed in title. 
 
No bill, except general appropriation bills and bills for the 
codification and general revision of the laws, shall be passed 
containing more than one subject, which shall be clearly 
expressed in its title; but if any subject is embraced in any 
act which is not expressed in the title, such act shall be void 
only as to so much thereof as shall not be so expressed. 
 
Article 3, Section 25  Vote required to pass bill. 
 
No bill shall become a law except by a vote of a majority of all 
the members elected to each house, nor unless on its final 
passage the vote taken by ayes and noes, and the names of those 
voting be entered on the journal. 
 
Article 3, Section 26  How laws revised, amended or 
extended. 
 
No law shall be revised or amended, or the provisions thereof 
extended by reference to its title only, but so much thereof as 
is revised, amended, or extended, shall be re-enacted and 
published at length. 
 
Article 3, Section 27  Special and local laws prohibited. 
 
The legislature shall not pass local or special laws in any of 
the following enumerated cases, that is to say: For granting 
divorces; laying out, opening, altering or working roads or 
highways; vacating roads, town plats, streets, alleys or public 
grounds; locating or changing county seats; regulating county or 
township affairs; incorporation of cities, towns or villages; or 
changing or amending the charters of any cities, towns or 
villages; regulating the practice in courts of justice; 
regulating the jurisdiction and duties of justices of the peace, 
police magistrates or constables; changing the rules of evidence 
in any trial or inquiry; providing for changes of venue in civil 
or criminal cases; declaring any person of age; for limitation 
of civil actions; giving effect to any informal or invalid 
deeds; summoning or impaneling grand or petit juries; providing 
for the management of common schools; regulating the rate of 
interest on money; the opening or conducting of any election or 
designating the place of voting; the sale or mortgage of real 
estate belonging to minors or others under disability; 
chartering or licensing ferries or bridges or toll roads; 
chartering banks, insurance companies and loan and trust 
companies; remitting fines, penalties or forfeitures; 
creating[,] increasing, or decreasing fees, percentages or 
allowances of public officers; changing the law of descent; 
granting to any corporation, association or individual, the 
right to lay down railroad tracks, or any special or exclusive 
privilege, immunity or franchise whatever, or amending existing 
charter for such purpose; for punishment of crimes; changing the 
names of persons or places; for the assessment or collection of 
taxes; affecting estates of deceased persons, minors or others 
under legal disabilities; extending the time for the collection 
of taxes; refunding money paid into the state treasury, 
relinquishing or extinguishing, in whole or part, the 
indebtedness, liabilities or obligation of any corporation or 
person to this state or to any municipal corporation therein; 
exempting property from taxation; restoring to citizenship 
persons convicted of infamous crimes; authorizing the creation, 
extension or impairing of liens; creating offices or prescribing 
the powers or duties of officers in counties, cities, townships 
or school districts; or authorizing the adoption or legitimation 
of children. In all other cases where a general law can be made 
applicable no special law shall be enacted. 
 
Article 3, Section 28  Signing of bills. 
 
The presiding officer of each house shall, in the presence of 
the house over which he presides, sign all bills and joint 
resolutions passed by the legislature immediately after their 
titles have been publicly read, and the fact of signing shall be 
at once entered upon the journal. 
 
Article 3, Section 29  Legislative employees. 
 
The legislature shall prescribe by law the number, duties and 
compensation of the officers and employes of each house, and no 
payment shall be made from the state treasury, or be in any way 
authorized to any such person except to an acting officer or 
employe elected or appointed in pursuance of law. 
 
Article 3, Section 30  Extra compensation to public 
officers  prohibited. 
 
No bill shall be passed giving any extra compensation to any 
public officer, servant or employe, agent or contractor, after 
services are rendered or contract made. 
 
Article 3, Section 31  Supplies for legislature and 
departments. 
 
All stationery, printing, paper, fuel and lights used in the 
legislature and other departments of government shall be 
furnished, and the printing and binding of the laws, journals 
and department reports and other printing and binding, and the 
repairing and furnishing the halls and rooms used for the 
meeting of the legislature and its committees shall be performed 
under contract, to be given to the lowest responsible bidder, 
below such maximum price and under such regulations as may be 
prescribed by law. No member or officer of any department of the 
government shall be in any way interested in any such contract; 
and all such contracts shall be subject to the approval of the 
governor and state treasurer. 
 
Article 3, Section 32  Changing terms and salaries of 
public officers. 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this constitution, no law shall 
extend the term of any public officer or increase or diminish 
his salary or emolument after his election or appointment; but 
this shall not be construed to forbid the legislature from 
fixing salaries or emoluments of those officers first elected or 
appointed under this constitution, if such salaries or 
emoluments are not fixed by its provisions. 
 
Article 3, Section 33  Origin of revenue bills. 
 
All bills for raising revenue shall originate in the house of 
representatives; but the senate may propose amendments, as in 
case of other bills. 
 
Article 3, Section 34  General appropriation bills; other 
appropriations. 
 
The general appropriation bills shall embrace nothing but 
appropriations for the ordinary expenses of the legislative, 
executive and judicial departments of the state, interest on the 
public debt, and for public schools. All other appropriations 
shall be made by separate bills, each embracing but one subject. 
 
Article 3, Section 35  Money expended only on 
appropriation. 
 
Except for interest on public debt, money shall be paid out of 
the treasury only on appropriations made by the legislature, and 
in no case otherwise than upon warrant drawn by the proper 
officer in pursuance of law. 
 
Article 3, Section 36  Prohibited appropriations. 
 
No appropriation shall be made for charitable, industrial, 
educational or benevolent purposes to any person, corporation or 
community not under the absolute control of the state, nor to 
any denominational or sectarian institution or association. 
 
Article 3, Section 37  Delegation of power to perform 
municipal functions prohibited. 
 
The legislature shall not delegate to any special commissioner, 
private corporation or association, any power to make, supervise 
or interfere with any municipal improvements, moneys, property 
or effects, whether held in trust or otherwise, to levy taxes, 
or to perform any municipal functions whatever. 
 
Article 3, Section 38  Investment of trust funds. 
 
The legislature may authorize the investment of trust funds by 
executors, administrators, guardians or trustees, in the bonds 
or stocks of private corporations, and in such other securities 
as it may by law provide. 
 
Article 3, Section 39  Aid to railroads prohibited. 
 
The legislature shall have no power to pass any law authorizing 
the state or any county in the state to contract any debt or 
obligation in the construction of any railroad, or give or loan 
its credit to or in aid of the construction of the same. 
 
Article 3, Section 40  Debts to state or municipal 
corporation cannot be released unless otherwise prescribed by 
legislature. 
 
No obligation or liability of any person, association or 
corporation held or owned by the state or any municipal 
corporation therein shall ever be exchanged, transferred, 
remitted, released, postponed or in any way diminished except as 
may be prescribed by the legislature.  The liability or 
obligation shall not be extinguished except by payment into the 
proper treasury or as may otherwise be prescribed by the 
legislature in cases where the obligation or liability is not 
collectible. 
 
Article 3, Section 41  Resolutions; approval or veto. 
 
Every order, resolution or vote, in which the concurrence of 
both houses may be necessary, except on the question of 
adjournment, or relating solely to the transaction of the 
business of the two houses, shall be presented to the governor, 
and before it shall take effect be approved by him, or, being 
disapproved, be repassed by two-thirds of both houses as 
prescribed in the case of a bill. 
 
Article 3, Section 42  Bribery of legislators and 
solicitation of bribery defined; expulsion of legislator for 
bribery or solicitation. 
 
If any person elected to either house of the legislature shall 
offer or promise to give his vote or influence in favor of or 
against any measure or proposition, pending or to be introduced 
into the legislature, in consideration or upon condition that 
any other person elected to the same legislature will give, or 
promise or assent to give his vote or influence in favor of or 
against any other measure or proposition pending or proposed to 
be introduced into such legislature, the person making such 
offer or promise shall be deemed guilty of solicitation of 
bribery. If any member of the legislature shall give his vote or 
influence for or against any measure or proposition pending or 
to be introduced in such legislature, or offer, promise or 
assent thereto, upon condition that any other member will give 
or will promise or assent to give his vote or influence in favor 
of or against any other measure or proposition pending or to be 
introduced in such legislature, or in consideration that any 
other member has given his vote or influence for or against any 
other measure or proposition in such legislature, he shall be 
deemed guilty of bribery, and any member of the legislature, or 
person elected thereto, who shall be guilty of either of such 
offenses, shall be expelled and shall not thereafter be eligible 
to the legislature, and on conviction thereof in the civil 
courts shall be liable to such further penalty as may be 
prescribed by law. 
 
Article 3, Section 43  Offers to bribe. 
 
Any person who shall directly or indirectly offer, give or 
promise any money or thing of value, testimonial, privilege or 
personal advantage, to any executive or judicial officer or 
member of the legislature, to influence him in the performance 
of any of his official duties shall be deemed guilty of bribery, 
and be punished in such manner as shall be provided by law. 
 
Article 3, Section 44  Witnesses in bribery charges. 
 
Any person may be compelled to testify in any lawful 
investigation or judicial proceeding against any person who may 
be charged with having committed the offense of bribery or 
corrupt solicitation, or practices of solicitation, and shall 
not be permitted to withhold his testimony upon the ground that 
it may criminate himself, or subject him to public infamy; but 
such testimony shall not afterwards be used against him in any 
judicial proceeding, except for perjury in giving such 
testimony, and any person convicted of either of the offenses 
aforesaid shall, as part of the punishment therefor, be 
disqualified from holding any office or position of honor, trust 
or profit in this state. 
 
Article 3, Section 45  Legislature shall define corrupt 
solicitation. 
 
The offense of corrupt solicitation of members of the 
legislature or of public officers of the state, or of any 
municipal division thereof, and the occupation or practice of 
solicitation of such members or officers to influence their 
official actions shall be defined by law and shall be punishable 
by fine and imprisonment. 
 
Article 3, Section 46  Interested member shall not vote. 
 
A member who has a personal or private interest in any measure 
or bill proposed or pending before the legislature shall 
disclose the fact to the house of which he is a member, and 
shall not vote thereon. 
 
Article 3, Section 47  Congressional representation. 
 
One representative in the congress of the United States shall be 
elected from the state at large, the Tuesday next after the 
first Monday in November, 1890, and thereafter at such times and 
places, and in such manner as may be prescribed by law. When a 
new apportionment shall be made by congress, the legislature 
shall divide the state into congressional districts accordingly. 
 
Article 3, Section 48  State census. 
 
At the first budget session of the legislature following the 
federal census, the legislature shall reapportion its membership 
based upon that census.  Notwithstanding any other provision of 
this article, any bill to apportion the legislature may be 
introduced in a budget session in the same manner as in a 
general session. 
 
Article 3, Section 49  District representation. 
 
Congressional districts may be altered from time to time as 
public convenience may require. When a congressional district 
shall be composed of two or more counties they shall be 
contiguous, and the districts as compact as may be. No county 
shall be divided in the formation of congressional districts. 
 
Article 3, Section 50  Apportionment for first legislature. 
 
Until an apportionment of senators and representatives as 
otherwise provided by law, they shall be divided among the 
several counties of the state in the following manner: 
 
Albany County, two senators and five representatives. 
 
Carbon County, two senators and five representatives. 
 
Converse County, one senator and three representatives. 
 
Crook County, one senator and two representatives. 
 
Fremont County, one senator and two representatives. 
 
Laramie County, three senators and six representatives. 
 
Johnson County, one senator and two representatives. 
 
Sheridan County, one senator and two representatives. 
 
Sweetwater County, two senators and three representatives. 
 
Uinta County, two senators and three representatives. 
 
Article 3, Section 51  Filling of vacancies. 
 
When vacancies shall occur in the membership of either house of 
the legislature of the State of Wyoming through death, 
resignation or other cause, such vacancies shall be filled in 
such manner as may be prescribed by law, notwithstanding the 
provisions of section 4 of article III of the constitution which 
is by this section repealed. 
 
Article 3, Section 52  Initiative and referendum. 
 
(a)  The people may propose and enact laws by the 
initiative, and approve or reject acts of the legislature by the 
referendum. 
 
(b)  An initiative or referendum is proposed by an 
application containing the bill to be initiated or the act to be 
referred.  The application shall be signed by not less than one 
hundred (100) qualified voters as sponsors, and shall be filed 
with the secretary of state.  If he finds it in proper form he 
shall so certify.  Denial of certification shall be subject to 
judicial review. 
 
(c)  After certification of the application, a petition 
containing a summary of the subject matter shall be prepared by 
the secretary of state for circulation by the sponsors.  The 
petition may be filed with the secretary of state if it meets 
both of the following requirements: 
 
(i)  It is signed by qualified voters, equal in number 
to fifteen percent (15%) of those who voted in the preceding 
general election; and 
 
(ii)  It is signed by qualified voters equal in number 
to fifteen percent (15%) of those resident in at least two-
thirds (2/3) of the counties of the state, as determined by 
those who voted in the preceding general election in that 
county. 
 
(d)  An initiative petition may be filed at any time except 
that one may not be filed for a measure substantially the same 
as that defeated by an initiative election within the preceding 
(5) years.  The secretary of state shall prepare a ballot title 
and proposition summarizing the proposed law, and shall place 
them on the ballot for the first statewide election held more 
than one hundred twenty (120) days after adjournment of the 
legislative session following the filing.  If, before the 
election, substantially the same measure has been enacted, the 
petition is void. 
 
(e)  A referendum petition may be filed only within ninety 
(90) days after adjournment of the legislative session at which 
the act was passed, except that a referendum petition respecting 
any act previously passed by the legislature may be filed within 
six months after the power of referendum is adopted.  The 
secretary of state shall prepare a ballot title and proposition 
summarizing the act and shall place them on the ballot for the 
first statewide election held more than one hundred eighty (180) 
days after adjournment of that session. 
 
(f)  If votes in an amount in excess of fifty percent (50%) 
of those voting in the general election are cast in favor of 
adoption of an initiated measure, the measure is enacted.  If 
votes in an amount in excess of fifty percent (50%) of those 
voted in the general election are cast in favor of rejection of 
an act referred, it is rejected.  The secretary of state shall 
certify the election returns. An initiated law becomes effective 
ninety (90) days after certification, is not subject to veto, 
and may not be repealed by the legislature within two (2) years 
of its effective date.  It may be amended at any time.  An act 
rejected by referendum is void thirty (30) days after 
certification.  Additional procedures for the initiative and 
referendum may be prescribed by law. 
 
(g)  The initiative shall not be used to dedicate revenues, 
make or repeal appropriations, create courts, define the 
jurisdiction of courts or prescribe their rules, enact local or 
special legislation, or enact that prohibited by the 
constitution for enactment by the legislature. The referendum 
shall not be applied to dedications of revenue, to 
appropriations, to local or special legislation, or to laws 
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, 
health, or safety. 
 
Article 3, Section 53  Creation of criminal penalties not 
subject to governor's power to commute. 
 
Notwithstanding Article 4, Section 5 of this Constitution, the 
legislature may by law create a penalty of life imprisonment 
without parole for specified crimes which sentence shall not be 
subject to commutation by the governor.  The legislature may in 
addition limit commutation of a death sentence to a sentence of 
life imprisonment without parole which sentence shall not be 
subject to further commutation.  In no event shall the inherent 
power of the governor to grant a pardon be limited or curtailed. 
 
ARTICLE 4 - EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT 
 
Article 4, Section 1  Executive power vested in governor; 
term of governor. 
 
The executive power shall be vested in a governor, who shall 
hold his office for the term of four (4) years and until his 
successor is elected and duly qualified. 
 
Article 4, Section 2  Qualifications of governor. 
 
No person shall be eligible to the office of governor unless he 
be a citizen of the United States and a qualified elector of the 
state, who has attained the age of thirty years, and who has 
resided 5 years next preceding the election within the state or 
territory, nor shall he be eligible to any other office during 
the term for which he was elected. 
 
Article 4, Section 3  Election of governor. 
 
The governor shall be elected by the qualified electors of the 
state at the time and place of choosing members of the 
legislature. The person having the highest number of votes for 
governor shall be declared elected, but if two or more shall 
have an equal and highest number of votes for governor, the two 
houses of the legislature at its next regular session shall 
forthwith, by joint ballot, choose one of such persons for said 
office. The returns of the election for governor shall be made 
in such manner as shall be prescribed by law. 
 
Article 4, Section 4  Powers and duties of governor 
generally. 
 
The governor shall be commander-in-chief of the military forces 
of the state, except when they are called into the service of 
the United States, and may call out the same to execute the 
laws, suppress insurrection and repel invasion. He shall have 
power to convene the legislature on extraordinary occasions. He 
shall at the commencement of each session communicate to the 
legislature by message, information of the condition of the 
state, and recommend such measures as he shall deem expedient. 
He shall transact all necessary business with the officers of 
the government, civil and military. He shall expedite all such 
measures as may be resolved upon by the legislature and shall 
take care that the laws be faithfully executed. 
 
Article 4, Section 5  Pardoning power of governor. 
 
The governor shall have power to remit fines and forfeitures, to 
grant reprieves, commutations and pardons after conviction, for 
all offenses except treason and cases of impeachment; but the 
legislature may by law regulate the manner in which the 
remission of fines, pardons, commutations and reprieves may be 
applied for. Upon conviction for treason he shall have power to 
suspend the execution of sentence until the case is reported to 
the legislature at its next regular session, when the 
legislature shall either pardon, or commute the sentence, direct 
the execution of the sentence or grant further reprieve. He 
shall communicate to the legislature at each regular session 
each case of remission of fine, reprieve, commutation or pardon 
granted by him, stating the name of the convict, the crime for 
which he was convicted, the sentence and its date, and the date 
of the remission, commutation, pardon or reprieve with his 
reasons for granting the same. 
 
Article 4, Section 6  Acting governor. 
 
If the governor be impeached, displaced, resign or die, or from 
mental or physical disease or otherwise become incapable of 
performing the duties of his office or be absent from the state, 
the secretary of state shall act as governor until the vacancy 
is filled or the disability removed. 
 
Article 4, Section 7  When governor may fill vacancies in 
office. 
 
When any office from any cause becomes vacant, and no mode is 
provided by the constitution or law for filling such vacancy, 
the governor shall have the power to fill the same by 
appointment. 
 
Article 4, Section 8  Approval or veto of legislation by 
governor; passage over veto. 
 
Every bill which has passed the legislature shall, before it 
becomes a law, be presented to the governor. If he approve, he 
shall sign it; but if not, he shall return it with his 
objections to the house in which it originated, which shall 
enter the objections at large upon the journal and proceed to 
reconsider it. If, after such reconsideration, two-thirds of the 
members elected agree to pass the bill, it shall be sent, 
together with the objections, to the other house, by which it 
shall likewise be reconsidered, and if it be approved by two-
thirds of the members elected, it shall become a law; but in all 
such cases the vote of both houses shall be determined by the 
yeas and nays, and the names of the members voting for and 
against the bill shall be entered upon the journal of each house 
respectively. If any bill is not returned by the governor within 
three days (Sundays excepted) after its presentation to him, the 
same shall be a law, unless the legislature by its adjournment, 
prevent its return, in which case it shall be a law, unless he 
shall file the same with his objections in the office of the 
secretary of state within fifteen days after such adjournment. 
 
Article 4, Section 9  Veto of items of appropriations. 
 
The governor shall have power to disapprove of any item or items 
or part or parts of any bill making appropriations of money or 
property embracing distinct items, and the part or parts of the 
bill approved shall be the law, and the item or items and part 
or parts disapproved shall be void unless enacted in the 
following manner: If the legislature be in session he shall 
transmit to the house in which the bill originated a copy of the 
item or items or part or parts thereof disapproved, together 
with his objections thereto, and the items or parts objected to 
shall be separately reconsidered, and each item or part shall 
then take the same course as is prescribed for the passage of 
bills over the executive veto. 
 
Article 4, Section 10  Bribery or coercion of or by 
governor. 
 
Any governor of this state who asks, receives or agrees to 
receive any bribe upon any understanding that his official 
opinion, judgment or action shall be influenced thereby, or who 
gives or offers, or promises his official influence in 
consideration that any member of the legislature shall give his 
official vote or influence on any particular side of any 
question or matter upon which he is required to act in his 
official capacity, or who menaces any member by the threatened 
use of his veto power, or who offers or promises any member that 
he, the governor, will appoint any particular person or persons 
to any office created or thereafter to be created, in 
consideration that any member shall give his official vote or 
influence on any matter pending or thereafter to be introduced 
into either house of said legislature; or who threatens any 
member that he, the governor, will remove any person or persons 
from office or position with intent in any manner to influence 
the action of said members, shall be punished in the manner now 
or that may hereafter be provided by law, and upon conviction 
thereof shall forfeit all right to hold or exercise any office 
of trust or honor in this state. 
 
Article 4, Section 11  State officers; election; 
qualifications; terms. 
 
There shall be chosen by the qualified electors of the state at 
the times and places of choosing members of the legislature, a 
secretary of state, auditor, treasurer, and superintendent of 
public instruction, who shall have attained the age of twenty-
five (25) years respectively, shall be citizens of the United 
States, and shall have the qualifications of state electors.  
They shall severally hold their offices at the seat of 
government, for the term of four (4) years and until their 
successors are elected and duly qualified.  The legislature may 
provide for such other state officers as are deemed necessary. 
 
Article 4, Section 12  State officers; powers and duties. 
 
The powers and duties of the secretary of state, of state 
auditor, treasurer and superintendent of public instruction 
shall be as prescribed by law. 
 
Article 4, Section 13  Salaries of governor and other 
elective state officers. 
 
Until otherwise provided by law, the governor shall receive an 
annual salary of two thousand and five hundred dollars, the 
secretary of state, state auditor, state treasurer and 
superintendent of public instruction shall each receive an 
annual salary of two thousand dollars, and the salaries of any 
of the said officers shall not be increased or diminished during 
the period for which they were elected, and all fees and profits 
arising from any of the said offices shall be covered into the 
state treasury. 
 
Article 4, Section 14  Examination of accounts. 
 
The legislature shall provide by law for examination of the 
accounts of state treasurer, supreme court clerks, district 
court clerks, and all county treasurers, and treasurers of such 
other public institutions as the legislature may prescribe. 
 
Article 4, Section 15  Great seal of state. 
 
There shall be a seal of state which shall be called the "Great 
Seal of the State of Wyoming"; it shall be kept by the secretary 
of state and used by him officially as directed by law. 
 
The seal of the Territory of Wyoming as now used shall be the 
seal of the state until otherwise provided by law. 
 
ARTICLE 5 - JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT 
 
Article 5, Section 1  How judicial power vested. 
 
The judicial power of the state shall be vested in the senate, 
sitting as a court of impeachment, in a supreme court, district 
courts, and such subordinate courts as the legislature may, by 
general law, establish and ordain from time to time. 
 
Article 5, Section 2  Supreme court generally; appellate 
jurisdiction. 
 
The supreme court shall have general appellate jurisdiction, co-
extensive with the state, in both civil and criminal causes, and 
shall have a general superintending control over all inferior 
courts, under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by 
law. 
 
Article 5, Section 3  Supreme court generally; original 
jurisdiction. 
 
The supreme court shall have original jurisdiction in quo 
warranto and mandamus as to all state officers, and in habeas 
corpus. The supreme court shall also have power to issue writs 
of mandamus, review, prohibition, habeas corpus, certiorari, and 
other writs necessary and proper to the complete exercise of its 
appellate and revisory jurisdiction. Each of the judges shall 
have power to issue writs of habeas corpus to any part of the 
state upon petition by or on behalf of a person held in actual 
custody, and may make such writs returnable before himself or 
before the supreme court, or before any district court of the 
state or any judge thereof. 
 
Article 5, Section 4  Supreme court generally; number; 
election of chief justice; quorum; vacancies in supreme court or 
district court; judicial nominating commission; terms; standing 
for retention in office. 
 
(a)  The supreme court of the state shall consist of not 
less than three nor more than five justices as may be determined 
by the legislature. The justices of the court shall elect one of 
their number to serve as chief justice for such term and with 
such authority as shall be prescribed by law. A majority of the 
justices shall constitute a quorum, and a concurrence of a 
majority of such quorum shall be sufficient to decide any 
matter. If a justice of the supreme court for any reason shall 
not participate in hearing any matter, the chief justice may 
designate one of the district judges to act for such 
nonparticipating justice. 
 
(b)  A vacancy in the office of justice of the supreme 
court or judge of any district court or of such other courts 
that may be made subject to this provision by law, shall be 
filled by a qualified person appointed by the governor from a 
list of three nominees that shall be submitted by the judicial 
nominating commission. The commission shall submit such a list 
not later than 60 days after the death, retirement, tender of 
resignation, removal, failure of an incumbent to file a 
declaration of candidacy or certification of a negative majority 
vote on the question of retention in office under section 
[subsection] (g) hereof. If the governor shall fail to make any 
such appointment within 30 days from the day the list is 
submitted to him, such appointment shall be made by the chief 
justice from the list within 15 days. 
 
(c)  There shall be a judicial nominating commission for 
the supreme court, district courts and any other courts to which 
these provisions may be extended by law. The commission shall 
consist of seven members, one of whom shall be the chief 
justice, or a justice of the supreme court designated by the 
chief justice to act for him, who shall be chairman thereof. In 
addition to the chief justice, or his designee, three resident 
members of the bar engaged in active practice shall be elected 
by the Wyoming state bar and three electors of the state not 
admitted to practice law shall be appointed by the governor to 
serve on said commission for such staggered terms as shall be 
prescribed by law. No more than two members of said commission 
who are residents of the same judicial district may qualify to 
serve any term or part of a term on the commission. In the case 
of courts having less than statewide authority, each judicial 
district not otherwise represented by a member on the 
commission, and each county, should the provisions hereof be 
extended by law to courts of lesser jurisdiction than district 
courts, shall be represented by two nonvoting advisors to the 
commission when an appointment to a court in such unrepresented 
district, or county, is pending; both of such advisors shall be 
residents of the district, or county, and one shall be a member 
of the bar appointed by the governing body of the Wyoming state 
bar and one shall be a nonattorney advisor appointed by the 
governor. 
 
(d)  No member of the commission excepting the chairman 
shall hold any federal, state or county public office or any 
political party office, and after serving a full term he shall 
not be eligible for reelection or reappointment to succeed 
himself on the commission. No member of the judicial nominating 
commission shall be eligible for appointment to any judicial 
office while he is a member of the commission nor for a period 
of one year after the expiration of his term for which he was 
elected or appointed. Vacancies in the office of commissioner 
shall be filled for the unexpired terms in the same manner as 
the original appointments. Additional qualifications of members 
of the commission may be prescribed by law. 
 
(e)  The chairman of the commission shall cast votes only 
in the event of ties. The commission shall operate under rules 
adopted by the supreme court. Members of the commission shall be 
entitled to no compensation other than expenses incurred for 
travel and subsistence while attending meetings of the 
commission. 
 
(f)  The terms of supreme court justices shall be eight 
years and the terms of district court judges shall be six years. 
 
(g)  Each justice or judge selected under these provisions 
shall serve for one year after his appointment and until the 
first Monday in January following the next general election 
after the expiration of such year. He shall, at such general 
election, stand for retention in office on a ballot which shall 
submit to the appropriate electorate the question whether such 
justice or judge shall be retained in office for another term or 
part of a term, and upon filing a declaration of candidacy in 
the form and at the times prescribed by law, he shall, at the 
general election next held before the expiration of each term, 
stand for retention on such ballots. The electorate of the whole 
state shall vote on the question of retention or rejection of 
justices of the supreme court, and any other statewide court; 
the electorate of the several judicial districts shall vote on 
the question of retention or rejection of judges of their 
respective districts, and the electorate of such other 
subdivisions of the state as shall be prescribed by law shall 
vote on the question of retention or rejection of any other 
judges to which these provisions may be extended. 
 
(h)  A justice or judge selected hereunder, or one that is 
in office upon the effective date of this amendment, who shall 
desire to retain his judicial office a succeeding term, 
following the expiration of his existing term of office, shall 
file with the appropriate office not more than 6 months nor less 
than 3 months before the general election to be held before the 
expiration of his existing term of office a declaration of 
intent to stand for election for a succeeding term. When such a 
declaration of intent is filed, the appropriate electorate shall 
vote upon a nonpartisan judicial ballot on the question of 
retention in or rejection from office of such justice or judge, 
and if a majority of those voting on the question vote 
affirmatively, the justice or judge shall be elected to serve 
the succeeding term prescribed by law. If a justice or judge 
fails to file such a declaration within the time specified, or 
if a majority of those voting on the question vote negatively to 
any judicial candidacy, a vacancy will thereby be created in 
that office at the end of its existing term. 
 
Article 5, Section 5  Voluntary retirement and compensation 
of justices and judges. 
 
Subject to the further provisions of this section, the 
legislature shall provide for the voluntary retirement and 
compensation of justices and judges of the supreme court and 
district courts, and may do so for any other courts, on account 
of length of service, age and disability, and for their 
reassignment to active duty where and when needed. The office of 
every such justice and judge shall become vacant when the 
incumbent reaches the age of seventy (70) years, as the 
legislature may prescribe; but, in the case of an incumbent 
whose term of office includes the effective date of this 
amendment, this provision shall not prevent him from serving the 
remainder of said term nor be applicable to him before his 
period or periods of judicial service shall have reached a total 
of six (6) years. The legislature may also provide for benefits 
for dependents of justices and judges. 
 
Article 5, Section 6  Commission on judicial conduct and 
ethics. 
 
(a)  There is hereby created the Commission on Judicial 
Conduct and Ethics.  The commission shall have twelve (12) 
members who reside in Wyoming consisting of: 
 
(i)  Three (3) active Wyoming judges, who are not 
members of the supreme court, elected by the full-time, active 
Wyoming judges; 
 
(ii)  Three (3) members of the Wyoming state bar, 
appointed by its governing body; and 
 
(iii)  Six (6) electors of the state, who are not 
active or retired judges or attorneys, appointed by the governor 
and confirmed by the senate. 
 
(b)  All terms shall be for three (3) years duration. 
Members shall be eligible for reappointment to a second term. 
 
(c)  The commission shall divide itself into investigatory 
and adjudicatory panels for each case considered. No commission 
member may serve on an adjudicatory panel in any case in which 
that member served in an investigatory capacity. 
 
(d)  The commission, or a panel thereof, shall consider 
complaints of judicial misconduct made against judicial officers 
and, to the extent permitted and as provided for by the code of 
judicial conduct, may: 
 
(i)  Discipline a judicial officer; or 
 
(ii)  Recommend discipline of a judicial officer to 
the supreme court or a special supreme court. 
 
(e)  The supreme court shall adopt a code of judicial 
conduct applicable to all judicial officers and adopt rules 
governing: 
 
(i)  The election of judges to the commission; 
 
(ii)  The staggering of terms, and the removal and 
filling of vacancies of commission members; 
 
(iii)  The appointment of a special supreme court 
composed of five (5) district judges who are not members of the 
commission, to act in the place of the supreme court in any case 
involving the discipline or disability of a justice of the 
supreme court; and 
 
(iv)  Procedures for the operation of the commission 
including exercise of the commission's disciplinary powers. 
 
(f)  The supreme court or special supreme court, on 
recommendation of the commission or on its own motion may: 
 
(i)  Suspend a judicial officer without salary when 
the judicial officer is charged with or is convicted in the 
United States of a crime punishable as a felony or one involving 
moral turpitude under Wyoming or federal law, and remove that 
judicial officer in the event such conviction becomes final; 
 
(ii)  For any judicial officer removed from office, 
order a forfeiture of any pension or retirement benefits accrued 
after the offending conduct, except for those that have been 
vested under the Wyoming retirement act or any local plan; 
 
(iii)  Suspend the judicial officer from practicing 
law in this state; and 
 
(iv)  Remove a judicial officer from office or impose 
other discipline permitted by the rules for judicial discipline 
for conduct that constitutes willful misconduct in office, or 
for a willful and persistent failure to perform the duties of 
the office, or for habitual intemperance, or for conduct 
prejudicial to the administration of justice that brings the 
judicial office into disrepute, or for a violation of the code 
of judicial conduct. 
 
(g)  The code of judicial conduct shall provide for the 
mandatory retirement of a judicial officer for any disability 
that seriously interferes with the performance of the duties of 
the office and is, or is likely to become, permanent. A judicial 
officer retired by the supreme court or a special supreme court 
for a disability shall be considered to have retired voluntarily 
without loss of retirement benefits. 
 
(h)  A judicial officer removed from office is ineligible 
for any judicial office. 
 
(j)  This section applies to all judicial officers during 
their service on the bench and to former judicial officers 
regarding allegations of judicial misconduct occurring during 
service on the bench if a complaint is made within one (1) year 
following service. The term "judicial officer" includes all 
members of the judicial branch of government performing judicial 
functions. 
 
Article 5, Section 7  Supreme court generally; terms of 
court. 
 
At least two terms of the supreme court shall be held annually 
at the seat of government at such times as may be provided by 
law. 
 
Article 5, Section 8  Supreme court generally; 
qualifications of justices. 
 
No person shall be eligible to the office of justice of the 
supreme court unless he be learned in the law, have been in 
actual practice at least nine (9) years, or whose service on the 
bench of any court of record, when added to the time he may have 
practiced law, shall be equal to nine (9) years, be at least 
thirty years of age and a citizen of the United States, nor 
unless he shall have resided in this state or territory at least 
three years. 
 
Article 5, Section 9  Supreme court generally; clerk. 
 
There shall be a clerk of the supreme court who shall be 
appointed by the justices of said court and shall hold his 
office during their pleasure, and whose duties and emoluments 
shall be as provided by law. 
 
Article 5, Section 10  District courts generally; 
jurisdiction. 
 
The district court shall have original jurisdiction of all 
causes both at law and in equity and in all criminal cases, of 
all matters of probate and insolvency and of such special cases 
and proceedings as are not otherwise provided for. The district 
court shall also have original jurisdiction in all cases and of 
all proceedings in which jurisdiction shall not have been by law 
vested exclusively in some other court; and said court shall 
have the power of naturalization and to issue papers therefor. 
They shall have such appellate jurisdiction in cases arising in 
justices' and other inferior courts in their respective counties 
as may be prescribed by law. Said courts and their judges shall 
have power to issue writs of mandamus, quo warranto, review, 
certiorari, prohibition, injunction and writs of habeas corpus, 
on petition by or on behalf of any person in actual custody in 
their respective districts. 
 
Article 5, Section 11  District courts generally; judges to 
hold court for each other. 
 
The judges of the district courts may hold courts for each other 
and shall do so when required by law. 
 
Article 5, Section 12  District courts generally; 
qualifications of judges. 
 
No person shall be eligible to the office of judge of the 
district court unless he be learned in the law, be at least 
twenty-eight years of age, and a citizen of the United States, 
nor unless he shall have resided within the State or Territory 
of Wyoming at least two years next preceding his election. 
 
Article 5, Section 13  District courts generally; clerks. 
 
There shall be a clerk of the district court in each organized 
county in which a court is holden who shall be elected, or, in 
case of vacancy, appointed in such manner and with such duties 
and compensation as may be prescribed by law. 
 
Article 5, Section 14  District courts generally; 
commissioners. 
 
The legislature shall provide by law for the appointment by the 
several district courts of one or more district court 
commissioners (who shall be persons learned in the law) in each 
organized county in which a district court is holden, such 
commissioners shall have authority to perform such chamber 
business in the absence of the district judge from the county or 
upon his written statement filed with the papers, that it is 
improper for him to act, as may be prescribed by law, to take 
depositions and perform such other duties, and receive such 
compensation as shall be prescribed by law. 
 
Article 5, Section 15  Style of process. 
 
The style of all process shall be "The State of Wyoming." All 
prosecutions shall be carried on in the name and by the 
authority of the State of Wyoming, and conclude "against the 
peace and dignity of the State of Wyoming." 
 
Article 5, Section 16  Supreme court judges limited to 
judicial duties. 
 
No duties shall be imposed by law upon the supreme court or any 
of the judges thereof, except such as are judicial, nor shall 
any of the judges thereof exercise any power of appointment 
except as herein provided. 
 
Article 5, Section 17  Salaries of judges of supreme and 
district courts. 
 
The judges of the supreme and district courts shall receive such 
compensation for their services as may be prescribed by law, 
which compensation shall not be increased or diminished during 
the term for which a judge shall have been elected, and the 
salary of a judge of the supreme or district court shall be as 
may be prescribed by law; provided, however, that when any 
legislative increase or decrease in the salary of the justices 
or judges of such courts whose respective terms of office do not 
expire at the same time, has heretofore or shall hereafter 
become effective as to any member of such court, it shall be 
effective from such date as to each of the members thereof. 
 
Article 5, Section 18  Appeals from district courts to 
supreme court. 
 
Writs of error and appeals may be allowed from the decisions of 
the district courts to the supreme court under such regulations 
as may be prescribed by law. 
 
Article 5, Section 19  State divided into districts; 
election and terms of district judges. 
 
Until otherwise provided by law, the state shall be divided into 
three judicial districts, in each of which there shall be 
elected at general elections, by the electors thereof, one judge 
of the district court therein, whose term shall be six (6) years 
from the first Monday in January succeeding his election and 
until his successor is duly qualified. 
 
Article 5, Section 20  Districts defined. 
 
Until otherwise provided by law, said judicial districts shall 
be constituted as follows: District number one shall consist of 
the counties of Laramie, Converse and Crook. District number two 
shall consist of the counties of Albany, Johnson and Sheridan. 
District number three shall consist of the counties of Carbon, 
Sweetwater, Uinta and Fremont. 
 
Article 5, Section 21  Increase in number of districts and 
judges. 
 
The legislature may from time to time increase the number of 
said judicial districts and the judges thereof, but such 
increase or change in the boundaries of the district shall not 
work the removal of any judge from his office during the term 
for which he may have been elected or appointed; provided the 
number of districts and district judges shall not exceed four 
(4) until the valuation of taxable property in the state shall 
be equal to one hundred million ($100,000,000) dollars. 
 
Article 5, Section 22  Jurisdiction of justices of the 
peace. 
 
[Repealed.] 
 
Article 5, Section 23  Appeals from justices' courts. 
 
[Repealed.] 
 
Article 5, Section 24  Terms of district courts; attaching 
unorganized territory to organized counties. 
 
The time of holding courts in the several counties of a district 
shall be as prescribed by law, and the legislature shall make 
provisions for attaching unorganized counties or territory to 
organized counties for judicial purposes. 
 
Article 5, Section 25  Judges of supreme and district 
courts shall not practice. 
 
No judge of the supreme or district court shall act as attorney 
or counsellor at law. 
 
Article 5, Section 26  Power to fix terms of court. 
 
Until the legislature shall provide by law for fixing the terms 
of courts, the judges of the supreme court and district courts 
shall fix the terms thereof. 
 
Article 5, Section 27  Judges of supreme and district 
courts shall not hold other office. 
 
No judge of the supreme or district court shall be elected or 
appointed to any other than judicial offices or be eligible 
thereto during the term for which he was elected or appointed 
such judge. 
 
Article 5, Section 28  Appeals from boards of arbitration. 
 
Appeals from decisions of compulsory boards of arbitration shall 
be allowed to the supreme court of the state, and the manner of 
taking such appeals shall be prescribed by law. 
 
Article 5, Section 29  Juvenile delinquency and domestic 
relations courts. 
 
The legislature may by general law provide for such juvenile 
delinquency and domestic relations courts as may be needed, and 
for the number, qualifications and election of judges of such 
courts. Appeals shall lie in such cases and pursuant to such 
regulations as may be prescribed by law. Such courts shall have 
such jurisdiction as the legislature may by law provide. 
 
ARTICLE 6 - SUFFRAGE AND ELECTIONS 
 
Article 6, Section 1  Male and female citizens to enjoy 
equal rights. 
 
The rights of citizens of the State of Wyoming to vote and hold 
office shall not be denied or abridged on account of sex. Both 
male and female citizens of this state shall equally enjoy all 
civil, political and religious rights and privileges. 
 
Article 6, Section 2  Qualifications of electors. 
 
Every citizen of the United States of the age of twenty-one 
years and upwards, who has resided in the state or territory one 
year and in the county wherein such residence is located sixty 
days next preceding any election, shall be entitled to vote at 
such election, except as herein otherwise provided. 
 
Article 6, Section 3  Electors privileged from arrest. 
 
Electors shall in all cases except treason, felony or breach of 
the peace, be privileged from arrest on the days of election 
during their attendance at elections, and going to and returning 
therefrom. 
 
Article 6, Section 4  Exemption of electors from military 
duty. 
 
No elector shall be obliged to perform militia duty on the day 
of election, except in time of war or public danger. 
 
Article 6, Section 5  Electors must be citizens of United 
States. 
 
No person shall be deemed a qualified elector of this state, 
unless such person be a citizen of the United States. 
 
Article 6, Section 6  What persons excluded from franchise. 
 
All persons adjudicated to be mentally incompetent or persons 
convicted of felonies, unless restored to civil rights, are 
excluded from the elective franchise. 
 
Article 6, Section 7  When residence not lost by reason of 
absence. 
 
No elector shall be deemed to have lost his residence in the 
state, by reason of his absence on business of the United 
States, or of this state, or in the military or naval service of 
the United States. 
 
Article 6, Section 8  Soldiers stationed in state not 
considered residents. 
 
No soldier, seaman, or marine in the army or navy of the United 
States shall be deemed a resident of this state in consequence 
of his being stationed therein. 
 
Article 6, Section 9  Educational qualifications of 
electors. 
 
No person shall have the right to vote who shall not be able to 
read the constitution of this state. The provisions of this 
section shall not apply to any person prevented by physical 
disability from complying with its requirements. 
 
Article 6, Section 10  Alien suffrage. 
 
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to deprive any 
person of the right to vote who has such right at the time of 
the adoption of this constitution, unless disqualified by the 
restrictions of section six of this article. After the 
expiration of five (5) years from the time of the adoption of 
this constitution, none but citizens of the United States shall 
have the right to vote. 
 
Article 6, Section 11  Manner of holding elections. 
 
All elections shall be by ballot. The legislature shall provide 
by law that the names of all candidates for the same office, to 
be voted for at any election, shall be printed on the same 
ballot, at public expense, and on election day be delivered to 
the voters within the polling place by sworn public officials, 
and only such ballots so delivered shall be received and 
counted. But no voter shall be deprived the privilege of writing 
upon the ballot used the name of any other candidate. All voters 
shall be guaranteed absolute privacy in the preparation of their 
ballots, and the secrecy of the ballot shall be made compulsory. 
 
Article 6, Section 12  Registration of voters required. 
 
No person qualified to be an elector of the State of Wyoming, 
shall be allowed to vote at any general or special election 
hereafter to be holden in the state, until he or she shall have 
registered as a voter according to law, unless the failure to 
register is caused by sickness or absence, for which provisions 
shall be made by law. The legislature of the state shall enact 
such laws as will carry into effect the provisions of this 
section, which enactment shall be subject to amendment, but 
shall never be repealed; but this section shall not apply to the 
first election held under this constitution. 
 
Article 6, Section 13  Purity of elections to be provided 
for. 
 
The legislature shall pass laws to secure the purity of 
elections, and guard against abuses of the elective franchise. 
 
Article 6, Section 14  Election contests. 
 
The legislature shall, by general law, designate the courts by 
which the several classes of election contests not otherwise 
provided for, shall be tried, and regulate the manner of trial 
and all matters incident thereto; but no such law shall apply to 
any contest arising out of an election held before its passage. 
 
Article 6, Section 15  Qualifications for office. 
 
No person except a qualified elector shall be elected or 
appointed to any civil or military office in the state.  
"Military office" shall be limited to the offices of adjutant 
general, assistant adjutant general for the army national guard 
and assistant adjutant general for the air national guard. 
 
Article 6, Section 16  When officers to hold over; 
suspension of officers. 
 
Every person holding any civil office under the state or any 
municipality therein shall, unless removed according to law, 
exercise the duties of such office until his successor is duly 
qualified, but this shall not apply to members of the 
legislature, nor to members of any board or assembly, two or 
more of whom are elected at the same time. The legislature may 
by law provide for suspending any officer in his functions, 
pending impeachment or prosecution for misconduct in office. 
 
Article 6, Section 17  Time of holding general and special 
elections; when elected officers to enter upon duties. 
 
All general elections for state and county officers, for members 
of the house of representatives and the senate of the State of 
Wyoming, and representatives to the congress of the United 
States, shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first 
Monday in November of each even year. Special elections may be 
held as now, or may hereafter be provided by law. All state and 
county officers elected at a general election shall enter upon 
their respective duties on the first Monday in January next 
following the date of their election, or as soon thereafter as 
may be possible. 
 
Article 6, Section 18  Method of selecting officers whose 
election is not provided for. 
 
All officers, whose election is not provided for in this 
constitution, shall be elected or appointed as may be directed 
by law. 
 
Article 6, Section 19  Dual office holding. 
 
No member of congress from this state, nor any person holding or 
exercising any office or appointment of trust or profit under 
the United States, shall at the same time hold or exercise any 
office in this state to which a salary, fees or perquisites 
shall be attached. The legislature may by law declare what 
offices are incompatible. 
 
Article 6, Section 20  Oath of office; form. 
 
Senators and representatives and all judicial, state and county 
officers shall, before entering on the duties of their 
respective offices, take and subscribe the following oath or 
affirmation: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will 
support, obey and defend the constitution of the United States, 
and the constitution of the state of Wyoming; that I have not 
knowingly violated any law related to my election or 
appointment, or caused it to be done by others; and that I will 
discharge the duties of my office with fidelity." 
 
Article 6, Section 21  Oath of office; how administered. 
 
The foregoing oath shall be administered by some person 
authorized to administer oaths, and in the case of state 
officers and judges of the supreme court shall be filed in the 
office of the secretary of state, and in the case of other 
judicial and county officers in the office of the clerk of the 
county in which the same is taken; any person refusing to take 
said oath or affirmation shall forfeit his office, and any 
person who shall be convicted of having sworn or affirmed 
falsely, or of having violated said oath or affirmation, shall 
be guilty of perjury, and be forever disqualified from holding 
any office of trust or profit within this state. The oath to 
members of the senate and house of representatives shall be 
administered by one of the judges of the supreme court or a 
justice of the peace, in the hall of the house to which the 
members shall be elected. 
 
Article 6, Section 22  Absent voter ballots, voting and 
registration. 
 
The provisions of section 11 of article 6 of this constitution, 
which provides that the ballots therein mentioned shall be 
delivered on election day to the voters within the polling place 
by sworn public officials, and that only such ballots so 
delivered shall be received and counted, shall not be applicable 
to, affect or invalidate absent voter ballots and voting thereof 
and registration therefor, as provided by article 14, of chapter 
36, Wyoming Revised Statutes, 1931, and other acts of the 
legislature of the State of Wyoming, amendatory thereof or 
related thereto, whether heretofore or hereafter enacted. 
 
ARTICLE 7 - EDUCATION; STATE INSTITUTIONS; PROMOTION OF HEALTH 
AND MORALS; PUBLIC BUILDINGS 
 
Article 7, Section 1  Legislature to provide for public 
schools. 
 
The legislature shall provide for the establishment and 
maintenance of a complete and uniform system of public 
instruction, embracing free elementary schools of every needed 
kind and grade, a university with such technical and 
professional departments as the public good may require and the 
means of the state allow, and such other institutions as may be 
necessary. 
 
Article 7, Section 2  School revenues. 
 
The following are declared to be perpetual funds for school 
purposes, of which the annual income only can be appropriated, 
to wit: Such per centum as has been or may hereafter be granted 
by congress on the sale of lands in this state; all moneys 
arising from the sale or lease of sections number sixteen and 
thirty-six in each township in the state, and the lands selected 
or that may be selected in lieu thereof; the proceeds of all 
lands that have been or may hereafter be granted to this state, 
where by the terms and conditions of the grant, the same are not 
to be otherwise appropriated; the net proceeds of lands and 
other property and effects that may come to the state by escheat 
or forfeiture, or from unclaimed dividends or distributive 
shares of the estates of deceased persons; all moneys, stocks, 
bonds, lands and other property now belonging to the common 
school funds. Provided, that the rents for the ordinary use of 
said lands shall be applied to the support of public schools 
and, when authorized by general law, not to exceed thirty-three 
and one-third (33 1/3) per centum of oil, gas, coal, or other 
mineral royalties arising from the lease of any said school 
lands may be so applied. 
 
Article 7, Section 3  Other sources of school revenues. 
 
To the sources of revenue above mentioned shall be added all 
other grants, gifts and devises that have been or may hereafter 
be made to this state and not otherwise appropriated by the 
terms of the grant, gift or devise. 
 
Article 7, Section 4  Restriction in use of revenues. 
 
All money, stocks, bonds, lands and other property belonging to 
a county school fund, except such moneys and property as may be 
provided by law for current use in aid of public schools, shall 
belong to and be invested by the several counties as a county 
public school fund, in such manner as the legislature shall by 
law provide, the income of which shall be appropriated 
exclusively to the use and support of free public schools in the 
several counties of the state. 
 
Article 7, Section 5  Fines and penalties to belong to 
public school fund. 
 
All fines and penalties under general laws of the state shall 
belong to the public school fund of the respective counties and 
be paid over to the custodians of such funds for the current 
support of the public schools therein. 
 
Article 7, Section 6  State to keep school funds; 
investment. 
 
All funds belonging to the state for public school purposes, the 
interest and income of which only are to be used, shall be 
deemed trust funds in the care of the state, which shall keep 
them for the exclusive benefit of the public schools. The 
legislature shall provide by law for the investment of such 
trust funds. 
 
Article 7, Section 7  Application of school funds. 
 
The income arising from the funds mentioned in the preceding 
section, together with all the rents of the unsold school lands 
and such other means as the legislature may provide, shall be 
exclusively applied to the support of free schools in every 
county in the state. 
 
Article 7, Section 8  Distribution of school funds. 
 
Provision shall be made by general law for the equitable 
allocation of such income among all school districts in the 
state.  But no appropriation shall be made from said fund to any 
district for the year in which a school has not been maintained 
for at least three (3) months; nor shall any portion of any 
public school fund ever be used to support or assist any private 
school, or any school, academy, seminary, college or other 
institution of learning controlled by any church or sectarian 
organization or religious denomination whatsoever. 
 
Article 7, Section 9  Taxation for schools. 
 
The legislature shall make such further provision by taxation or 
otherwise, as with the income arising from the general school 
fund will create and maintain a thorough and efficient system of 
public schools, adequate to the proper instruction of all youth 
of the state, between the ages of six and twenty-one years, free 
of charge; and in view of such provision so made, the 
legislature shall require that every child of sufficient 
physical and mental ability shall attend a public school during 
the period between six and eighteen years for a time equivalent 
to three years, unless educated by other means. 
 
Article 7, Section 10  No discrimination between pupils. 
 
In none of the public schools so established and maintained 
shall distinction or discrimination be made on account of sex, 
race or color. 
 
Article 7, Section 11  Textbooks. 
 
Neither the legislature nor the superintendent of public 
instruction shall have power to prescribe text books to be used 
in the public schools. 
 
Article 7, Section 12  Sectarianism prohibited. 
 
No sectarian instruction, qualifications or tests shall be 
imparted, exacted, applied or in any manner tolerated in the 
schools of any grade or character controlled by the state, nor 
shall attendance be required at any religious service therein, 
nor shall any sectarian tenets or doctrines be taught or favored 
in any public school or institution that may be established 
under this constitution. 
 
Article 7, Section 13  Land commissioners. 
 
[Superseded by Article 18, Section 3 as amended 1922.] 
 
Article 7, Section 14  Supervision of schools entrusted to 
state superintendent of public instruction. 
 
The general supervision of the public schools shall be entrusted 
to the state superintendent of public instruction, whose powers 
and duties shall be prescribed by law. 
 
Article 7, Section 15  Establishment of university 
confirmed. 
 
The establishment of the University of Wyoming is hereby 
confirmed, and said institution, with its several departments, 
is hereby declared to be the University of the State of Wyoming. 
All lands which have been heretofore granted or which may be 
granted hereafter by congress unto the university as such, or in 
aid of the instruction to be given in any of its departments, 
with all other grants, donations, or devises for said 
university, or for any of its departments, shall vest in said 
university, and be exclusively used for the purposes for which 
they were granted, donated or devised. The said lands may be 
leased on terms approved by the land commissioners, but may not 
be sold on terms not approved by congress. 
 
Article 7, Section 16  Tuition free. 
 
The university shall be equally open to students of both sexes, 
irrespective of race or color; and, in order that the 
instruction furnished may be as nearly free as possible, any 
amount in addition to the income from its grants of lands and 
other sources above mentioned, necessary to its support and 
maintenance in a condition of full efficiency shall be raised by 
taxation or otherwise, under provisions of the legislature. 
 
Article 7, Section 17  Government of university. 
 
The legislature shall provide by law for the management of the 
university, its lands and other property by a board of trustees, 
consisting of not less than seven members, to be appointed by 
the governor by and with the advice and consent of the senate, 
and the president of the university, and the superintendent of 
public instruction, as members ex officio, as such having the 
right to speak, but not to vote. The duties and powers of the 
trustees shall be prescribed by law. 
 
Article 7, Section 18  Establishment of institutions. 
 
Such charitable, reformatory and penal institutions as the 
claims of humanity and the public good may require, shall be 
established and supported by the state in such manner as the 
legislature may prescribe.  They shall be supervised as 
prescribed by law. 
 
Article 7, Section 19  Territorial institutions pass to 
state. 
 
The property of all charitable and penal institutions belonging 
to the Territory of Wyoming shall, upon the adoption of this 
constitution, become the property of the State of Wyoming, and 
such of said institutions as are then in actual operation, shall 
thereafter have the supervision of the board of charities and 
reform as provided in the last preceding section of this 
article, under provisions of the legislature. 
 
Article 7, Section 20  Duty of legislature to protect and 
promote health and morality of people. 
 
As the health and morality of the people are essential to their 
well-being, and to the peace and permanence of the state, it 
shall be the duty of the legislature to protect and promote 
these vital interests by such measures for the encouragement of 
temperance and virtue, and such restrictions upon vice and 
immorality of every sort, as are deemed necessary to the public 
welfare. 
 
Article 7, Section 21  Buildings and property of territory 
pass to state. 
 
All public buildings and other property, belonging to the 
territory shall, upon the adoption of this constitution, become 
the property of the State of Wyoming. 
 
Article 7, Section 22  Construction and supervision. 
 
The construction, care and preservation of all public buildings 
of the state not under the control of the board or officers of 
public institutions by authority of law shall be entrusted to 
such officers or boards, and under such regulations as shall be 
prescribed by law. 
 
Article 7, Section 23  Permanent location. 
 
The legislature shall have no power to change or to locate the 
seat of government, the state university, or state hospital, but 
may provide by law for submitting the question of the permanent 
locations thereof respectively, to the qualified electors of the 
state, at some general election, and a majority of all votes 
upon said question cast at said election, shall be necessary to 
determine the location thereof; but until the same are 
respectively and permanently located, as herein provided, the 
location of the seat of government and said institutions shall 
be as follows:  The seat of government shall be located at the 
City of Cheyenne, in the County of Laramie.  The state 
university shall be centered at the City of Laramie, in the 
County of Albany.  The state hospital shall be located at or 
near the City of Evanston, in the County of Uinta.  A 
penitentiary shall be located at or near the City of Rawlins, in 
the County of Carbon.  The legislature may provide by law the 
location of other public institutions, including correctional 
facilities. 
 
ARTICLE 8 - IRRIGATION AND WATER RIGHTS 
 
Article 8, Section 1  Water is state property. 
 
The water of all natural streams, springs, lakes or other 
collections of still water, within the boundaries of the state, 
are hereby declared to be the property of the state. 
 
Article 8, Section 2  Board of control. 
 
There shall be constituted a board of control, to be composed of 
the state engineer and superintendents of the water divisions; 
which shall, under such regulations as may be prescribed by law, 
have the supervision of the waters of the state and of their 
appropriation, distribution and diversion, and of the various 
officers connected therewith. Its decisions to be subject to 
review by the courts of the state. 
 
Article 8, Section 3  Priority of appropriation. 
 
Priority of appropriation for beneficial uses shall give the 
better right. No appropriation shall be denied except when such 
denial is demanded by the public interests. 
 
Article 8, Section 4  Water divisions. 
 
The legislature shall by law divide the state into four (4) 
water divisions, and provide for the appointment of 
superintendents thereof. 
 
Article 8, Section 5  State engineer. 
 
There shall be a state engineer who shall be appointed by the 
governor of the state and confirmed by the senate; he shall hold 
his office for the term of six (6) years, or until his successor 
shall have been appointed and shall have qualified. He shall be 
president of the board of control, and shall have general 
supervision of the waters of the state and of the officers 
connected with its distribution. No person shall be appointed to 
this position who has not such theoretical knowledge and such 
practical experience and skill as shall fit him for the 
position. 
 
ARTICLE 9 - MINES AND MINING 
 
Article 9, Section 1  Inspector of mines. 
 
There shall be established and maintained the office of 
inspector of mines, the duties of which shall be prescribed by 
law. 
 
Article 9, Section 2  Legislature to enact regulatory laws. 
 
The legislature shall provide by law for the proper development, 
ventilation, drainage and operation of all mines in this state. 
 
Article 9, Section 3  Restrictions on employment in mines. 
 
[Repealed November 7, 1978.] 
 
Article 9, Section 4  Right of action for injuries. 
 
For any injury to person or property caused by wilful failure to 
comply with the provisions of this article, or laws passed in 
pursuance hereof, a right of action shall accrue to the party 
injured, for the damage sustained thereby, and in all cases in 
this state, whenever the death of a person shall be caused by 
wrongful act, neglect or default, such as would, if death had 
not ensued, have entitled the party injured to maintain an 
action to recover damages in respect thereof, the person who, or 
the corporation which would have been liable, if death had not 
ensued, shall be liable to an action for damages notwithstanding 
the death of the person injured, and the legislature shall 
provide by law at its first session for the manner in which the 
right of action in respect thereto shall be enforced. 
 
Article 9, Section 5  School of mines. 
 
The legislature may provide that the science of mining and 
metallurgy be taught in one of the institutions of learning 
under the patronage of the state. 
 
Article 9, Section 6  State geologist. 
 
[Repealed.] 
 
ARTICLE 10 - CORPORATIONS 
 
Article 10, Section 1  Creation. 
 
The legislature shall provide for the organization of 
corporations by general law. All laws relating to corporations 
may be altered, amended or repealed by the legislature at any 
time when necessary for the public good and general welfare, and 
all corporations doing business in this state may as to such 
business be regulated, limited or restrained by law not in 
conflict with the constitution of the United States. 
 
Article 10, Section 2  Control by state. 
 
All powers and franchises of corporations are derived from the 
people and are granted by their agent, the government, for the 
public good and general welfare, and the right and duty of the 
state to control and regulate them for these purposes is hereby 
declared. The power, rights and privileges of any and all 
corporations may be forfeited by willful neglect or abuse 
thereof. The police power of the state is supreme over all 
corporations as well as individuals. 
 
Article 10, Section 3  Forfeited charters. 
 
[Executed.] 
 
Article 10, Section 4  Damages for personal injuries or 
death; worker's compensation. 
 
(a)  No law shall be enacted limiting the amount of damages 
to be recovered for causing the injury or death of any person. 
 
(b)  Any section of this constitution to the contrary 
notwithstanding, for any civil action where a person alleges 
that a health care provider's act or omission in the provision 
of health care resulted in death or injury, the legislature may 
by general law: 
 
(i)  Mandate alternative dispute resolution or review 
by a medical review panel before the filing of a civil action 
against the health care provider. 
 
(c)  Any contract or agreement with any employee waiving 
any right to recover damages for causing the death or injury of 
any employee shall be void.  As to all extrahazardous 
employments the legislature shall provide by law for the 
accumulation and maintenance of a fund or funds out of which 
shall be paid compensation as may be fixed by law according to 
proper classifications to each person injured in such employment 
or to the dependent families of such as die as the result of 
such injuries, except in case of injuries due solely to the 
culpable negligence of the injured employee.  The fund or funds 
shall be accumulated, paid into the state treasury and 
maintained in such manner as may be provided by law.  Monies in 
the fund shall be expended only for compensation authorized by 
this section, for administration and management of the Worker's 
Compensation Act, debt service related to the fund and for 
workplace safety programs conducted by the state as authorized 
by law.  The right of each employee to compensation from the 
fund shall be in lieu of and shall take the place of any and all 
rights of action against any employer contributing as required 
by law to the fund in favor of any person or persons by reason 
of the injuries or death. Subject to conditions specified by 
law, the legislature may allow employments not designated 
extrahazardous to be covered by the state fund at the option of 
the employer.  To the extent an employer elects to be covered by 
the state fund and contributes to the fund as required by law, 
the employer shall enjoy the same immunity as provided for 
extrahazardous employments. 
 
Article 10, Section 5  Acceptance of constitution. 
 
No corporation organized under the laws of Wyoming Territory or 
any other jurisdiction than this state, shall be permitted to 
transact business in this state until it shall have accepted the 
constitution of this state and filed such acceptance in 
accordance with the laws thereof. 
 
Article 10, Section 6  Engaging in more than one line of 
business. 
 
Corporations shall have power to engage in such and as many 
lines or departments of business as the legislature shall 
provide. 
 
Article 10, Section 7  What corporations are common 
carriers. 
 
All corporations engaged in the transportation of persons, 
property, mineral oils, and minerals products, news or 
intelligence, including railroads, telegraphs, express 
companies, pipe lines and telephones, are declared to be common 
carriers. 
 
Article 10, Section 8  Trusts prohibited. 
 
There shall be no consolidation or combination of corporations 
of any kind whatever to prevent competition, to control or 
influence productions or prices thereof, or in any other manner 
to interfere with the public good and general welfare. 
 
Article 10, Section 9  Eminent domain. 
 
The right of eminent domain shall never be so abridged or 
construed as to prevent the legislature from taking property and 
franchises of incorporated companies and subjecting them to 
public use the same as the property of individuals. 
 
Article 10, Section 10  Mutual and co-operative 
associations. 
 
The legislature shall provide by suitable legislation for the 
organization of mutual and co-operative associations or 
corporations. 
 
Article 10, Section 11  Powers and rights of railroads. 
 
Any railroad corporation or association organized for the 
purpose, shall have the right to construct and operate a 
railroad between any points within this state and to connect at 
the state line with railroads of other states. Every railroad 
shall have the right with its road to intersect, connect with or 
cross any other railroad, and all railroads shall receive and 
transport each other's passengers, and tonnage and cars, loaded 
or empty, without delay or discrimination. 
 
Article 10, Section 12  Discrimination by railroads and 
telegraph lines forbidden. 
 
Railroad and telegraph lines heretofore constructed or that may 
hereafter be constructed in this state are hereby declared 
public highways and common carriers, and as such must be made by 
law to extend the same equality and impartiality to all who use 
them, excepting employees and their families and ministers of 
the gospel, whether individuals or corporations. 
 
Article 10, Section 13  Railroads to make annual reports to 
state auditor. 
 
Every railroad corporation or association operating a line of 
railroad within this state shall annually make a report to the 
auditor of state of its business within this state, in such form 
as the legislature may prescribe. 
 
Article 10, Section 14  Eminent domain. 
 
Exercise of the power and right of eminent domain shall never be 
so construed or abridged as to prevent the taking by the 
legislature of property and franchises of incorporated companies 
and subjecting them to public use the same as property of 
individuals. 
 
Article 10, Section 15  Aid to railroads and telegraph 
lines prohibited. 
 
Neither the state, nor any county, township, school district or 
municipality shall loan or give its credit or make donations to 
or in aid of any railroad or telegraph line; provided, that this 
section shall not apply to obligations of any county, city, 
township or school district, contracted prior to the adoption of 
this constitution. 
 
Article 10, Section 16  Acceptance of constitution by 
existing railroad, transportation and telegraph companies. 
 
No railroad or other transportation company or telegraph company 
in existence upon the adoption of this constitution shall derive 
the benefit of any future legislation without first filing in 
the office of the secretary of state an acceptance of the 
provisions of this constitution. 
 
Article 10, Section 17  Rights of telegraph companies. 
 
Any association, corporation or lessee of the franchises thereof 
organized for the purpose shall have the right to construct and 
maintain lines of telegraph within this state, and to connect 
the same with other lines. 
 
Article 10, Section 18  Foreign railroad or telegraph 
company must have agent for service of process. 
 
No foreign railroad or telegraph line shall do any business 
within this state without having an agent or agents within each 
county through which such railroad or telegraph line shall be 
constructed upon whom process may be served. 
 
Article 10, Section 19  Location of depots. 
 
No railroad company shall construct or operate a railroad within 
four (4) miles of any existing town or city without providing a 
suitable depot or stopping place at the nearest practicable 
point for the convenience of said town or city, and stopping all 
trains doing local business at said stopping place. No railroad 
company shall deviate from the most direct practicable line in 
constructing a railroad for the purpose of avoiding the 
provisions of this section. 
 
ARTICLE 11 - BOUNDARIES 
 
Article 11, Section 1  State boundaries. 
 
The boundaries of the State of Wyoming shall be as follows: 
Commencing at the intersection of the twenty-seventh meridian of 
longitude west from Washington with the forty-fifth degree of 
north latitude, and running thence west to the thirty-fourth 
meridian of west longitude, thence south to the forty-first 
degree of north latitude, thence east to the twenty-seventh 
meridian of west longitude, and thence north to the place of 
beginning. 
 
ARTICLE 12 - COUNTY ORGANIZATION 
 
Article 12, Section 1  Existing counties remain such. 
 
The several counties in the Territory of Wyoming as they shall 
exist at the time of the admission of said territory as a state, 
are hereby declared to be counties of the State of Wyoming. 
 
Article 12, Section 2  Organization of new counties. 
 
The legislature shall provide by general law for organizing new 
counties, locating the county seats thereof temporarily and 
changing county lines. But no new county shall be formed unless 
it shall contain within the limits thereof property of the 
valuation of two million dollars, as shown by last preceding tax 
returns, and not then unless the remaining portion of the old 
county or counties shall each contain property of at least three 
million dollars of assessable valuation; and no new county shall 
be organized nor shall any organized county be so reduced as to 
contain a population of less than one thousand five hundred bona 
fide inhabitants, and in case any portion of an organized county 
or counties is stricken off to form a new county, the new county 
shall assume and be holden for an equitable proportion of the 
indebtedness of the county or counties so reduced. No county 
shall be divided unless a majority of the qualified electors of 
the territory proposed to be cut off voting on the proposition 
shall vote in favor of the division. 
 
Article 12, Section 3  Changing county seats. 
 
The legislature shall provide by general law for changing county 
seats in organized counties, but it shall have no power to 
remove the county seat of any organized county. 
 
Article 12, Section 4  Township organization. 
 
The legislature shall provide by general law for a system of 
township organization and government, which may be adopted by 
any county whenever a majority of the citizens thereof voting at 
a general election shall so determine. 
 
Article 12, Section 5  County officers. 
 
The legislature shall provide by law for the election of such 
county officers as may be necessary. 
 
ARTICLE 13 - MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS 
 
Article 13, Section 1  Incorporation; alteration of 
boundaries; merger; consolidation; dissolution; determination of 
local affairs; classification; referendum; liberal construction. 
 
(a)  The legislature shall provide by general law, 
applicable to all cities and towns, 
 
(i)  For the incorporation of cities, 
 
(ii)  For the methods by which city and town 
boundaries may be altered, and 
 
(iii)  For the procedures by which cities and towns 
may be merged, consolidated or dissolved; provided that existing 
laws on such subjects and laws pertaining to civil service, 
retirement, collective bargaining, the levying of taxes, 
excises, fees, or any other charges, whether or not applicable 
to all cities and towns on the effective date of this amendment, 
shall remain in effect until superseded by general law and such 
existing laws shall not be subject to charter ordinance. 
 
(b)  All cities and towns are hereby empowered to determine 
their local affairs and government as established by ordinance 
passed by the governing body, subject to referendum when 
prescribed by the legislature, and further subject only to 
statutes uniformly applicable to all cities and towns, and to 
statutes prescribing limits of indebtedness. The levying of 
taxes, excises, fees, or any other charges shall be prescribed 
by the legislature. The legislature may not establish more than 
four (4) classes of cities and towns. Each city and town shall 
be governed by all other statutes, except as it may exempt 
itself by charter ordinance as hereinafter provided. 
 
(c)  Each city or town may elect that the whole or any part 
of any statute, other than statutes uniformly applicable to all 
cities and towns and statutes prescribing limits of 
indebtedness, may not apply to such city or town. This exemption 
shall be by charter ordinance passed by a two-thirds (2/3) vote 
of all members elected to the governing body of the city or 
town. Each such charter ordinance shall be titled and may 
provide that the whole or any part of any statute, which would 
otherwise apply to such city or town as specifically designated 
in the ordinance shall not apply to such city or town. Such 
ordinance may provide other provisions on the same subject. 
Every charter ordinance shall be published once each week for 
two consecutive weeks in the official city or town newspaper, if 
any, otherwise in a newspaper of general circulation in the city 
or town. No charter ordinance shall take effect until the 
sixtieth (60th) day after its final publication. If prior 
thereto, a petition, signed by a number of qualified electors of 
the city or town, equaling at least ten per cent (10%) of the 
number of votes cast at the last general municipal election, 
shall be filed in the office of the clerk of such city or town, 
demanding that such ordinance be submitted to referendum, then 
the ordinance shall not take effect unless approved by a 
majority of the electors voting thereon. Such referendum 
election shall be called within thirty (30) days and held within 
ninety (90) days after the petition is filed. An ordinance 
establishing procedures, and fixing the date of such election 
shall be passed by the governing body and published once each 
week for three (3) consecutive weeks in the official city or 
town newspaper, if any, otherwise in a newspaper of general 
circulation in the city or town. The question on the ballot 
shall be: "Shall Charter Ordinance No. .... Entitled (stating 
the title of the ordinance) take effect?". The governing body 
may submit, without a petition, any charter ordinance to 
referendum election under the procedures as previously set out. 
The charter ordinance shall take effect if approved by a 
majority of the electors voting thereon. An approved charter 
ordinance, after becoming effective, shall be recorded by the 
clerk in a book maintained for that purpose with a certificate 
of the procedures of adoption. A certified copy of the ordinance 
shall be filed with the secretary of state, who shall keep an 
index of such ordinances. Each charter ordinance enacted shall 
prevail over any prior act of the governing body of the city or 
town, and may be repealed or amended only by subsequent charter 
ordinance, or by enactments of the legislature applicable to all 
cities and towns. 
 
(d)  The powers and authority granted to cities and towns, 
pursuant to this section, shall be liberally construed for the 
purpose of giving the largest measure of self-government to 
cities and towns. 
 
Article 13, Section 2  Consent of electors necessary. 
 
No municipal corporation shall be organized without the consent 
of the majority of the electors residing within the district 
proposed to be so incorporated, such consent to be ascertained 
in the manner and under such regulations as may be prescribed by 
law. 
 
Article 13, Section 3  Restriction on powers to levy taxes 
and contract debts. 
 
The legislature shall restrict the powers of such corporations 
to levy taxes and assessments, to borrow money and contract 
debts so as to prevent the abuse of such power, and no tax or 
assessment shall be levied or collected or debts contracted by 
municipal corporations except in pursuance of law for public 
purposes specified by law. 
 
Article 13, Section 4  Franchises. 
 
No street passenger railway, telegraph, telephone or electric 
light line shall be constructed within the limits of any 
municipal organization without the consent of its local 
authorities. 
 
Article 13, Section 5  Acquisition of water rights. 
 
Municipal corporations shall have the same right as individuals 
to acquire rights by prior appropriation and otherwise to the 
use of water for domestic and municipal purposes, and the 
legislature shall provide by law for the exercise upon the part 
of incorporated cities, towns and villages of the right of 
eminent domain for the purpose of acquiring from prior 
appropriators upon the payment of just compensation, such water 
as may be necessary for the well being thereof and for domestic 
uses. 
 
ARTICLE 14 - PUBLIC OFFICERS 
 
Article 14, Section 1  Stated salaries to be paid. 
 
All state, city, county, town and school officers, (excepting 
justices of the peace and constables in precincts having less 
than fifteen hundred population, and excepting court 
commissioners, boards of arbitration and notaries public) shall 
be paid fixed and definite salaries. The legislature shall, from 
time to time, fix the amount of such salaries as are not already 
fixed by this constitution, which shall in all cases be in 
proportion to the value of the services rendered and the duty 
performed. 
 
Article 14, Section 2  Fees. 
 
The legislature shall provide by law the fees which may be 
demanded by justices of the peace and constables in precincts 
having less than fifteen hundred population, and of court 
commissioners, boards of arbitration and notaries public, which 
fees the said officers shall accept as their full compensation.  
But all other state, county, city, town and school officers 
shall be required by law to keep a true and correct account of 
all fees collected by them, and to pay the same into the proper 
treasury when collected, and the officer whose duty it is to 
collect such fees shall be held responsible, under his bond, for 
neglect to collect the same. 
 
Article 14, Section 3  Legislature to designate county 
offices and fix salaries of county officers. 
 
The legislature shall by law designate county offices and shall, 
from time to time, fix the salaries of county officers, which 
shall in all cases be in proportion to the value of the services 
rendered and the duties performed. 
 
Article 14, Section 4  Deputies. 
 
The legislature shall provide by general law for such deputies 
as the public necessities may require, and shall fix their 
compensation. 
 
Article 14, Section 5  Who are county officers referred to 
by section 3. 
 
Any county officers performing the duties usually performed by 
the officers named in this article shall be considered as 
referred to by section 3 of this article, regardless of the 
title by which their offices may hereafter be designated. 
 
Article 14, Section 6  Consolidation of offices. 
 
Whenever practicable the legislature may, and whenever the same 
can be done without detriment to the public service, shall 
consolidate offices in state, county and municipalities 
respectively, and whenever so consolidated, the duties of such 
additional office shall be performed under an ex officio title. 
 
ARTICLE 15 - TAXATION AND REVENUE 
 
Article 15, Section 1  Assessment of lands and improvements 
thereon. 
 
All lands and improvements thereon shall be listed for 
assessment, valued for taxation and assessed separately. 
 
Article 15, Section 2  Assessment of coal lands. 
 
All coal lands in the state from which coal is not being mined 
shall be listed for assessment, valued for taxation and assessed 
according to value. 
 
Article 15, Section 3  Taxation of mines and mining claims. 
 
All mines and mining claims from which gold, silver and other 
precious metals, soda, saline, coal, mineral oil or other 
valuable deposit, is or may be produced shall be taxed in 
addition to the surface improvements, and in lieu of taxes on 
the lands, on the gross product thereof, as may be prescribed by 
law; provided, that the product of all mines shall be taxed in 
proportion to the value thereof. 
 
Article 15, Section 4  State levy limited. 
 
For state revenue, there shall be levied annually a tax not to 
exceed four mills on the dollar of the assessed valuation of the 
property in the state except for the support of state 
educational and charitable institutions, the payment of the 
state debt and the interest thereon. 
 
Article 15, Section 5  County levies limited. 
 
For county revenue, there shall be levied annually a tax not to 
exceed twelve mills on the dollar for all purposes including 
general school tax, exclusive of state revenue, except for the 
payment of its public debt and the interest thereon. 
 
Article 15, Section 6  City levies limited. 
 
No incorporated city or town shall levy a tax to exceed eight 
mills on the dollar in any one year, except for the payment of 
its public debt and the interest thereon. 
 
Article 15, Section 7  Depositories for public moneys. 
 
All money belonging to the state or to any county, city, town, 
village or other subdivision therein, except as herein otherwise 
provided, shall, whenever practicable, be deposited in a 
national bank or banks or in a bank or banks incorporated under 
the laws of this state; provided, that the bank or banks in 
which such money is deposited shall furnish security to be 
approved as provided by law; and provided further, that such 
bank or banks shall pay the same rate of interest on any money 
so deposited therein on time certificates of deposit by the 
legal custodian or custodians of any such public moneys as such 
bank or banks pay on time certificates of deposit of private 
depositors, and the custodian or custodians of any such public 
moneys shall be authorized to deposit same under time 
certificates of deposit as may be provided by law. Such interest 
shall accrue to the fund from which it is derived. 
 
Article 15, Section 8  Profit making from public funds 
prohibited. 
 
The making of profit, directly or indirectly, out of state, 
county, city, town or school district money or other public 
fund, or using the same for any purpose not authorized by law, 
by any public officer, shall be deemed a felony, and shall be 
punished as provided by law. 
 
Article 15, Section 9  Legislature to provide for state 
board of equalization. 
 
The legislature shall provide by law for a state board of 
equalization. 
 
Article 15, Section 10  Duties of state board of 
equalization. 
 
The duties of the state board shall be to equalize the valuation 
on all property in the several counties and such other duties as 
may be prescribed by law. 
 
Article 15, Section 11  Uniformity of assessment required. 
 
(a)  All property, except as in this constitution otherwise 
provided, shall be uniformly valued at its full value as defined 
by the legislature, in four (4) classes as follows: 
 
(i)  Gross production of minerals and mine products in 
lieu of taxes on the land where produced; 
 
(ii)  Property used for industrial purposes as defined 
by the legislature; 
 
(iii)  Residential real property; and 
 
(iv)  All other property, real and personal. 
 
(b)  The legislature shall prescribe the percentage of 
value which shall be assessed within each designated class. All 
taxable property shall be valued at its full value as defined by 
the legislature except agricultural and grazing lands which 
shall be valued according to the capability of the land to 
produce agricultural products under normal conditions. The 
percentage of value prescribed for industrial property shall not 
be more than forty percent (40%) higher nor more than four (4) 
percentage points more than the percentage prescribed for 
residential real property or more than forty percent (40%) 
higher nor more than four (4) percentage points more than the 
percentage prescribed for all other property other than 
minerals. 
 
(c)  Except as provided in this subsection the legislature 
shall not create new classes or subclasses or authorize any 
property to be assessed at a rate other than the rates set for 
authorized classes. The legislature may create a subclass of 
residential real property for owner occupied primary residences. 
 
(d)  All taxation shall be equal and uniform within each 
class and subclass of property.  The legislature shall prescribe 
such regulations as shall secure a just valuation for taxation 
of all property, real and personal. 
 
Article 15, Section 12  Exemptions from taxation. 
 
The property of the United States, the state, counties, cities, 
towns, school districts and municipal corporations, when used 
primarily for a governmental purpose, and public libraries, lots 
with the buildings thereon used exclusively for religious 
worship, church parsonages, church schools and public 
cemeteries, shall be exempt from taxation, and such other 
property as the legislature may by general law provide. 
 
Article 15, Section 13  Tax must be authorized by law; law 
to state object. 
 
No tax shall be levied, except in pursuance of law, and every 
law imposing a tax shall state distinctly the object of the 
same, to which only it shall be applied. 
 
Article 15, Section 14  Surrender of taxing power 
prohibited. 
 
The power of taxation shall never be surrendered or suspended by 
any grant or contract to which the state or any county or other 
municipal corporation shall be a party. 
 
Article 15, Section 15  State tax for support of public 
schools. 
 
For the support of the public schools in the state there may be 
levied each year a state tax not exceeding twelve mills on the 
dollar of the assessed valuation of the property in the state. 
 
Article 15, Section 16  Disposition of fees, excises and 
license taxes on vehicles and gasoline. 
 
No moneys derived from fees, excises, or license taxes levied by 
the state and exclusive of registration fees and licenses or 
excise taxes imposed by a county or municipality, relating to 
registration, operation or use of vehicles on public highways, 
streets or alleys, or to fuels used for propelling such 
vehicles, shall be expended for other than cost of administering 
such laws, statutory refunds and adjustments allowed therein, 
payment of highway obligations, costs for construction, 
reconstruction, maintenance and repair of public highways, 
county roads, bridges, and streets, alleys and bridges in cities 
and towns, and expense of enforcing state traffic laws. 
 
Article 15, Section 17  County levy for support and 
maintenance of public schools. 
 
There shall be levied each year in each county of the state a 
tax of not to exceed six (6) mills on the dollar of the assessed 
valuation of the property in each county for the support and 
maintenance of the public schools.  This tax shall be collected 
by the county treasurer and disbursed among the school districts 
within the county as the legislature shall provide.  The 
legislature may authorize boards of trustees of school districts 
to levy a special tax on the property of the district.  The 
legislature may also provide for the distribution among one (1) 
or more school districts of any revenue from the special school 
district property tax in excess of a state average yield, which 
shall be calculated each year, per average daily membership. 
 
Article 15, Section 18  Full tax credit allowed against any 
liability arising from a tax on income. 
 
No tax shall be imposed upon income without allowing full credit 
against such tax liability for all sales, use, and ad valorem 
taxes paid in the taxable year by the same taxpayer to any 
taxing authority in Wyoming. 
 
Article 15, Section 19  Mineral excise tax; distribution. 
 
The Legislature shall provide by law for an excise tax on the 
privilege of severing or extracting minerals, of one and one-
half percent (1 1/2%) on the value of the gross product 
extracted. The minerals subject to such excise tax shall be 
coal, petroleum, natural gas, oil shale, and such other minerals 
as may be designated by the Legislature. Such tax shall be in 
addition to any other excise, severance or ad valorem tax. The 
proceeds from such tax shall be deposited in the Permanent 
Wyoming Mineral Trust Fund. The fund, including all monies 
deposited in the fund from whatever source, shall remain 
inviolate. The monies in the fund shall be invested as 
prescribed by the Legislature and all income from fund 
investments shall be deposited by the State Treasurer in the 
general fund on an annual basis. The Legislature may also 
specify by law, conditions and terms under which monies in the 
fund may be loaned to political subdivisions of the state. 
 
Article 15, Section 20  Higher education trust funds; 
investments; earnings. 
 
The legislature may from time to time place monies into 
endowment funds for higher education scholarships and for 
improving the quality of higher education, which funds shall 
remain inviolate.  The earnings of the funds shall be used for 
the purposes specified in this section, but the legislature may 
from time to time by law regulate the manner in which the 
earnings are expended.  The legislature may also provide for use 
of the earnings to protect the funds from inflation and to even 
fluctuations in earnings over time.  The funds may be invested 
in the same manner as other permanent funds of the state. 
 
ARTICLE 16 - PUBLIC INDEBTEDNESS 
 
Article 16, Section 1  Limitation on state debt. 
 
The State of Wyoming shall not, in any manner, create any 
indebtedness exceeding one per centum on the assessed value of 
the taxable property in the state, as shown by the last general 
assessment for taxation, preceding; except to suppress 
insurrection or to provide for the public defense. 
 
Article 16, Section 2  Creation of state debt in excess of 
taxes for current year. 
 
No debt in excess of the taxes for the current year, shall in 
any manner be created in the State of Wyoming, unless the 
proposition to create such debt shall have been submitted to a 
vote of the people and by them approved; except to suppress 
insurrection or to provide for the public defense. 
 
Article 16, Section 3  Limitation on county debt. 
 
No county in the State of Wyoming shall in any manner create any 
indebtedness, exceeding two per centum on the assessed value of 
taxable property in such county, as shown by the last general 
assessment, preceding; provided, however, that any county, city, 
town, village or other subdivision thereof in the State of 
Wyoming, may bond its public debt existing at the time of the 
adoption of this constitution, in any sum not exceeding four per 
centum on the assessed value of the taxable property in such 
county, city, town, village or other subdivision, as shown by 
the last general assessment for taxation. 
 
Article 16, Section 4  Creation of county or municipal debt 
in excess of taxes for current year. 
 
No debt in excess of the taxes for the current year shall, in 
any manner, be created by any county or subdivision thereof, or 
any city, town or village, or any subdivision thereof in the 
State of Wyoming, unless the proposition to create such debt 
shall have been submitted to a vote of the people thereof and by 
them approved. 
 
Article 16, Section 5  Limitation on municipal, county or 
school district debt. 
 
No city or town shall in any manner create any indebtedness 
exceeding four per cent (4%) of the assessed value of the 
taxable property therein, except that an additional indebtedness 
of four per cent (4%) of the assessed value of the taxable 
property therein may be created for sewage disposal systems. 
Indebtedness created for supplying water to cities or towns is 
excepted from the limitation herein. 
 
No county shall in any manner create any indebtedness exceeding 
two per cent (2%) of the taxable property therein. 
 
No school district shall in any manner create any indebtedness 
exceeding ten per cent (10%) on the assessed value of the 
taxable property therein for the purpose of acquiring land, 
erection, enlarging and equipping of school buildings. 
 
All limitations herein shall refer to the last preceding general 
assessment. 
 
Article 16, Section 6  Loan of credit; donations 
prohibited; investment of funds; works of internal improvement. 
 
(a)  Neither the state nor any county, city, township, 
town, school district, or any other political subdivision, 
shall: 
 
(i)  Loan or give its credit or make donations to or 
in aid of any individual, association or corporation, except for 
necessary support of the poor; or 
 
(ii)  Subscribe to or become the owner of the capital 
stock of any association or corporation, except that: 
 
(A)  Funds of public employee retirement systems 
and the permanent funds of the state of Wyoming may be invested 
in such stock under conditions the legislature prescribes; 
 
(B)  The legislature may provide by law for the 
investment of funds not designated as permanent funds of the 
state in the capital stock of any association or corporation and 
may designate which of these funds may be invested.  The 
legislature may prescribe different investment conditions for 
each fund. Any legislation establishing or increasing the 
percentage of any fund that may be invested under this 
subparagraph shall be passed only by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of 
all the members of each of the two (2) houses voting separately; 
 
(C)  The legislature may provide by law for the 
investment of county, city, township, town, school district, or 
any other political subdivision's funds in the capital stock of 
any association or corporation and may designate which of these 
funds may be invested. The legislature may prescribe different 
investment conditions for each type and class of political 
subdivision and for each type of fund. Any legislation 
establishing or increasing the percentage of any fund that may 
be invested under this subparagraph shall be passed only by a 
two-thirds (2/3) vote of all the members of each of the two (2) 
houses voting separately. 
 
(b)  The state shall not engage in any work of internal 
improvement unless authorized by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the 
people. 
 
Article 16, Section 7  Payments of public money. 
 
No money shall be paid out of the state treasury except upon 
appropriation by law and on warrant drawn by the proper officer, 
and no bills, claims, accounts or demands against the state, or 
any county or political subdivision, shall be audited, allowed 
or paid until a full itemized statement in writing, certified to 
under penalty of perjury, shall be filed with the officer or 
officers whose duty it may be to audit the same. 
 
Article 16, Section 8  Endorsements required on bonds and 
other evidences of indebtedness. 
 
No bond or evidence of indebtedness of the state shall be valid 
unless the same shall have endorsed thereon a certificate signed 
by the auditor and secretary of state that the bond or evidence 
of debt is issued pursuant to law and is within the debt limit. 
No bond or evidence of debt of any county, or bond of any 
township or other political subdivision, shall be valid unless 
the same [shall] have endorsed thereon a certificate signed by 
the county auditor or other officer authorized by law to sign 
such certificate, stating that said bond or evidence of debt is 
issued pursuant to law and is within the debt limit. 
 
Article 16, Section 9  Construction and improvement of 
public roads and highways. 
 
The provision of section 6 of article 16 of this constitution 
prohibiting the state from engaging in any work of internal 
improvement unless authorized by a two-thirds vote of the people 
shall not apply to or affect the construction or improvement of 
public roads and highways; but the legislature shall have power 
to provide for the construction and improvement of public roads 
and highways in whole or in part by the state, either directly 
or by extending aid to counties; and, notwithstanding said 
inhibition as to works of internal improvement, whenever grants 
of land or other property shall have been made to the state, 
especially dedicated by the grant to particular works of 
internal improvement, the state may carry on such particular 
works and shall devote thereto the avails of such grants, and 
may pledge or appropriate the revenues derived from such works 
in the aid of their completion. 
 
Article 16, Section 10  Construction and improvement of 
works for conservation and utilization of water. 
 
The provisions of section 6 of article 16 of this constitution 
prohibiting the state from engaging in any work of internal 
improvements, unless authorized by a two-thirds vote of the 
people, shall not apply to or affect the construction or 
improvement of any works designed, constructed or operated for 
the purposes of conservation or utilization of water, but the 
legislature shall have the power to provide for the construction 
or improvement in whole or in part, of any works designed, 
constructed or operated for the purposes of conservation or 
utilization of water, either directly or by extending aid to 
legal subdivisions of the State of Wyoming, duly organized 
irrigation, drainage, soil conservation, and public irrigation 
and power districts, and any public corporation legally 
organized for the purposes of the conservation, distribution or 
utilization of water or soil; and notwithstanding said 
inhibition as to works of internal improvement, whenever grants 
of land or other property shall be made to the state, especially 
dedicated by the grant to particular works of internal 
improvement, the state may carry on such particular works of 
internal improvement and shall devote thereto the avails of such 
grants, and may likewise pledge or appropriate the revenues 
derived from such works in aid of their completion. 
 
Article 16, Section 11  Construction, maintenance and 
improvement of public airports, aircraft landing strips and 
related facilities. 
 
The provisions of section 6 of article XVI of this constitution 
prohibiting the state from engaging in any work of internal 
improvement unless authorized by a two-thirds vote of the 
people, shall not apply to or affect the construction, 
maintenance or improvement of public airports, aircraft landing 
strips and related facilities but the legislature shall have 
power to provide for the construction, maintenance and 
improvement of public airports, aircraft landing strips and 
related facilities, in whole or in part by the state, either 
directly or by extending aid to its political subdivisions and, 
notwithstanding said inhibition as to works of internal 
improvement, whenever grants of land or other property shall 
have been made to the state, especially dedicated by the grant 
to particular works of internal improvement, the state may carry 
on such particular works and shall devote thereto the avails of 
such grants, and may pledge or appropriate the revenues derived 
from such works in the aid of their completion and maintenance. 
 
Article 16, Section 12  Economic development loan fund. 
 
(a)  Notwithstanding Article 3, Section 36 and Article 16, 
Sections 1, 2 and 6 of this Constitution, the legislature, by a 
two-thirds (2/3) vote of all the members of each of the two (2) 
houses voting separately, may appropriate monies in an amount 
not exceeding one percent (1%) times the assessed value of the 
taxable property in the state as shown by the last preceding 
general assessment for taxation, to provide a revolving 
investment fund to be used to promote and aid the economic 
development of the state. 
 
(b)  The investment fund created by this section shall be 
used to provide fully-funded loan guarantees or loans to 
proposed or existing enterprises which will employ people within 
the state, provide services within the state, use resources 
within the state or otherwise add economic value to goods, 
services or resources within the state. 
 
(c)  Monies within the revolving investment fund shall be 
loaned or used to guarantee loans under such terms and 
conditions as the legislature may by law direct. 
 
(d)  The cumulative total of monies appropriated to provide 
a revolving investment fund shall never exceed one percent (1%) 
on the assessed value of the taxable property in the state as 
shown by the last preceding general assessment for taxation. 
 
(e)  Notwithstanding the limitation of subsection (d) of 
this section, earnings on the revolving investment fund shall be 
added to the revolving investment fund and shall be invested as 
provided in this section. 
 
Article 16, Section 13  Industrial and economic 
development; powers of counties and municipalities. 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision in this constitution, the 
legislature may authorize counties or incorporated 
municipalities, to appropriate from local sources of revenue 
such funds as may be deemed necessary for an economic or 
industrial development project or program, public or private, 
subject to approval by a vote of the majority of the registered 
voters of the county or municipality voting upon the question.  
For purposes of this section, "funds from local sources of 
revenue" means funds raised from general taxes levied by the 
county or municipality and shall not include any funds received 
by the county or municipality which are derived from state or 
federal sources. 
 
ARTICLE 17 - STATE MILITIA 
 
Article 17, Section 1  Of whom militia constituted. 
 
The militia of the state shall consist of all able-bodied 
qualified residents of the state, and those nonresidents who are 
accepted into service, between the ages of seventeen (17) and 
seventy (70) years; except those exempted by the law of the 
United States or of the state. But all residents having scruples 
of conscience averse to bearing arms shall be excused therefrom 
upon conditions as shall be prescribed by law. 
 
Article 17, Section 2  Legislature to provide for 
enrollment, equipment and discipline. 
 
The legislature shall provide by law for the enrollment, 
equipment and discipline of the militia to conform as nearly as 
practicable to the regulations for the government of the armies 
of the United States. 
 
Article 17, Section 3  How officers commissioned. 
 
All militia officers shall be commissioned by the governor, the 
manner of their selection to be provided by law, and may hold 
their commission for such period of time as the legislature may 
provide. 
 
Article 17, Section 4  Flags. 
 
No military organization under the laws of the state shall carry 
any banner or flag representing any sect or society or the flag 
of any nationality but that of the United States. 
 
Article 17, Section 5  Governor to be commander-in-chief; 
powers. 
 
The governor shall be commander-in-chief of all the military 
forces of the state, and shall have power to call out the 
militia to preserve the public peace, to execute the laws of the 
state, to suppress insurrection or repel invasion. 
 
ARTICLE 18 - PUBLIC LANDS AND DONATIONS 
 
Article 18, Section 1  Acceptance of lands from United 
States; sale of such lands. 
 
The State of Wyoming hereby agrees to accept the grants of lands 
heretofore made, or that may hereafter be made by the United 
States to the state, for educational purposes, for public 
buildings and institutions and for other objects, and donations 
of money with the conditions and limitations that may be imposed 
by the act or acts of congress, making such grants or donations. 
Such lands shall be disposed of only at public auction to the 
highest responsible bidder, after having been duly appraised by 
the land commissioners, at not less than three-fourths the 
appraised value thereof, and for not less than $10 per acre; 
provided, that in the case of actual and bona fide settlement 
and improvement thereon at the time of the adoption of this 
constitution, such actual settler shall have the preference 
right to purchase the land whereon he may have settled, not 
exceeding 160 acres at a sum not less than the appraised value 
thereof, and in making such appraisement the value of 
improvements shall not be taken into consideration. If, at any 
time hereafter, the United States shall grant any arid lands in 
the state to the state, on the condition that the state reclaim 
and dispose of them to actual settlers, the legislature shall be 
authorized to accept such arid lands on such conditions, or 
other conditions, if the same are practicable and reasonable. 
 
Article 18, Section 2  Application of proceeds of sale or 
rental. 
 
The proceeds from the sale and rental of all lands and other 
property donated, granted or received, or that may hereafter be 
donated, granted or received, from the United States or any 
other source, shall be inviolably appropriated and applied to 
the specific purposes specified in the original grant or gifts. 
 
Article 18, Section 3  Board of land commissioners. 
 
The governor, secretary of state, state treasurer, state auditor 
and superintendent of public instruction shall constitute a 
board of land commissioners, which under direction of the 
legislature as limited by this constitution, shall have 
direction, control, leasing and disposal of lands of the state 
granted, or which may be hereafter granted for the support and 
benefit of public schools, subject to the further limitations 
that the sale of all lands shall be at public auction, after 
such delay (not less than the time fixed by congress) in 
portions at proper intervals of time, and at such minimum prices 
(not less than the minimum fixed by congress) as to realize the 
largest possible proceeds. And said board, subject to the 
limitations of this constitution and under such regulations as 
may be provided by law shall have the direction, control, 
disposition and care of all lands that have been heretofore or 
may hereafter be granted to the state. 
 
Article 18, Section 4  Legislature to provide for 
disposition of lands. 
 
The legislature shall enact the necessary laws for the sale, 
disposal, leasing or care of all lands that have been or may 
hereafter be granted to the state, and shall, at the earliest 
practicable period, provide by law for the location and 
selection of all lands that have been or may hereafter be 
granted by congress to the state, and shall pass laws for the 
suitable keeping, transfer and disbursement of the land grant 
funds, and shall require of all officers charged with the same 
or the safekeeping thereof to give ample bonds for all moneys 
and funds received by them. 
 
Article 18, Section 5  Special privileges prohibited. 
 
Except a preference right to buy as in this constitution 
otherwise provided, no law shall ever be passed by the 
legislature granting any privileges to persons who may have 
settled upon any of the school lands granted to the state 
subsequent to the survey thereof by the general government, by 
which the amount to be derived by the sale or other disposition 
of such lands, shall be diminished directly or indirectly. 
 
Article 18, Section 6  Disposition of unexpended income of 
perpetual school fund. 
 
If any portion of the interest or income of the perpetual school 
fund be not expended during any year, said portion shall be 
added to and become a part of the said school fund. 
 
ARTICLE 19 - MISCELLANEOUS 
 
Article 19, Section 1  Legislature to provide for 
protection of livestock and stock owners. 
 
The legislature shall pass all necessary laws to provide for the 
protection of livestock against the introduction or spread of 
pleuro-pneumonia, glanders, splenetic or Texas fever, and other 
infectious or contagious diseases. The legislature shall also 
establish a system of quarantine, or inspection, and such other 
regulations as may be necessary for the protection of stock 
owners, and most conducive to the stock interests within the 
state. 
 
Article 19, Section 2  Day's work. 
 
Eight (8) hours actual work shall constitute a lawful day's work 
in all mines, and on all state and municipal works. 
 
Article 19, Section 3  Who shall not be employed on public 
works. 
 
No person not a citizen of the United States or who has not 
declared his intention to become such, shall be employed upon or 
in connection with any state, county or municipal works or 
employment. 
 
Article 19, Section 4  Legislature to provide for 
enforcement of section 3. 
 
The legislature shall, by appropriate legislation, see that the 
provisions of the foregoing section are enforced. 
 
Article 19, Section 5  Legislature to establish courts of 
arbitration; duties. 
 
[Repealed by Laws 1965.] 
 
Article 19, Section 6  Importing armed bodies to suppress 
violence prohibited; exception. 
 
No armed police force, or detective agency, or armed body, or 
unarmed body of men, shall ever be brought into this state, for 
the suppression of domestic violence, except upon the 
application of the legislature, or executive, when the 
legislature cannot be convened. 
 
Article 19, Section 7  Contract exempting employer from 
liability for personal injuries prohibited. 
 
It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation, to 
require of its servants or employes as a condition of their 
employment, or otherwise, any contract or agreement whereby such 
person, company or corporation shall be released or discharged 
from liability or responsibility, on account of personal 
injuries received by such servants or employes, while in the 
service of such person, company or corporation, by reason of the 
negligence of such person, company or corporation, or the agents 
or employes thereof, and such contracts shall be absolutely null 
and void. 
 
Article 19, Section 8  Legislature to provide for voluntary 
submission of differences to arbitrators. 
 
The legislature may provide by law for the voluntary submission 
of differences to arbitrators for determination and said 
arbitrators shall have such powers and duties as may be 
prescribed by law; but they shall have no power to render 
judgment to be obligatory on parties; unless they voluntarily 
submit their matters of difference and agree to abide the 
judgment of such arbitrators. 
 
Article 19, Section 9  Exemption of homestead. 
 
A homestead as provided by law shall be exempt from forced sale 
under any process of law, and shall not be alienated without the 
joint consent of husband and wife, when that relation exists; 
but no property shall be exempt from sale for taxes, or for the 
payment of obligations contracted for the purchase of said 
premises, or for the erection of improvements thereon. 
 
Article 19, Section 10  Intoxicating liquors. 
 
On and after the first day of March, 1935, the manufacture, sale 
and keeping for sale of malt, vinous or spirituous liquors, 
wine, ale, porter, beer or any intoxicating drink, mixture or 
preparation of like nature may be permitted in the State of 
Wyoming under such regulation as the legislature may prescribe. 
 
Article 19, Section 11  Use of monies in public employee 
retirement funds restricted. 
 
All monies from any source paid into any public employee 
retirement system created by the laws of this state shall be 
used only for the benefit of the members, retirees and 
beneficiaries of that system, including the payment of system 
administrative costs. 
 
ARTICLE 20 - AMENDMENTS 
 
Article 20, Section 1  How amendments proposed by 
legislature and submitted to people. 
 
Any amendment or amendments to this constitution may be proposed 
in either branch of the legislature, and, if the same shall be 
agreed to by two-thirds of all the members of each of the two 
houses, voting separately, such proposed amendment or amendments 
shall, with the yeas and nays thereon, be entered on their 
journals, and it shall be the duty of the legislature to submit 
such amendment or amendments to the electors of the state at the 
next general election, and cause the same to be published 
without delay for at least twelve (12) consecutive weeks, prior 
to said election, in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation, published in each county, and if a majority of the 
electors shall ratify the same, such amendment or amendments 
shall become a part of this constitution. 
 
Article 20, Section 2  How two or more amendments voted on. 
 
If two or more amendments are proposed, they shall be submitted 
in such manner that the electors shall vote for or against each 
of them separately. 
 
Article 20, Section 3  Constitutional convention. 
 
Whenever two-thirds of the members elected to each branch of the 
legislature shall deem it necessary to call a convention to 
revise or amend this constitution, they shall recommend to the 
electors to vote at the next general election for or against a 
convention, and if a majority of all the electors voting at such 
election shall have voted for a convention, the legislature 
shall at the next session provide by law for calling the same; 
and such convention shall consist of a number of members, not 
less than double that of the most numerous branch of the 
legislature. 
 
Article 20, Section 4  Constitution adopted by convention 
to be submitted to people. 
 
Any constitution adopted by such convention shall have no 
validity until it has been submitted to and adopted by the 
people. 
 
ARTICLE 21 - SCHEDULE 
 
Article 21, Section 1  Acquired rights continue. 
 
That no inconvenience may arise from a change of the territorial 
government to a permanent state government, it is declared that 
all writs, actions, prosecutions, claims, liabilities and 
obligations against the Territory of Wyoming, of whatever 
nature, and rights of individuals, and of bodies corporate, 
shall continue as if no change had taken place in this 
government, and all process which may, before the organization 
of the judicial department under this constitution, be issued 
under the authority of the Territory of Wyoming, shall be as 
valid as if issued in the name of the state. 
 
Article 21, Section 2  Territorial property vested in 
state. 
 
All property, real and personal, and all moneys, credits, claims 
and choses in action, belonging to the Territory of Wyoming, at 
the time of the adoption of this constitution, shall be vested 
in and become the property of the State of Wyoming. 
 
Article 21, Section 3  Territorial laws become state laws. 
 
All laws now in force in the Territory of Wyoming, which are not 
repugnant to this constitution, shall remain in force until they 
expire by their own limitation, or be altered or repealed by the 
legislature. 
 
Article 21, Section 4  Accrued fines go to state. 
 
All fines, penalties, forfeitures and escheats, accruing to the 
Territory of Wyoming, shall accrue to the use of the state. 
 
Article 21, Section 5  State to sue on bonds and prosecute 
crimes. 
 
All recognizances, bonds, obligations or other undertakings 
heretofore taken, or which may be taken before the organization 
of the judicial department under this constitution shall remain 
valid, and shall pass over to and may be prosecuted in the name 
of the state, and all bonds, obligations or other undertakings 
executed to this territory, or to any officer in his official 
capacity, shall pass over to the proper state authority and to 
their successors in office, for the uses therein respectively 
expressed, and may be sued for and recovered accordingly. All 
criminal prosecutions and penal actions which have arisen or 
which may arise before the organization of the judicial 
department under this constitution, and which shall then be 
pending, may be prosecuted to judgment and execution in the name 
of the state. 
 
Article 21, Section 6  Territorial officers to hold over. 
 
All officers, civil and military, holding their offices and 
appointments in this territory, under the authority of the 
United States or under the authority of this territory, shall 
continue to hold and exercise their respective offices and 
appointments until suspended under this constitution. 
 
Article 21, Section 7  Submission of constitution. 
 
This constitution shall be submitted for adoption or rejection 
to a vote of the qualified electors of this territory, at an 
election to be held on the first Tuesday in November, A. D. 
1889. Said election, as nearly as may be, shall be conducted in 
all respects in the same manner as provided by the laws of the 
territory for general elections, and the returns thereof shall 
be made to the secretary of said territory, who with the 
governor and chief justice thereof, or any two of them, shall 
canvass the same, and if a majority of the legal votes cast 
shall be for the constitution the governor shall certify the 
result to the president of the United States, together with a 
statement of the votes cast thereon and a copy of said 
constitution, articles, propositions and ordinances. At the said 
election the ballots shall be in the following form: "For the 
constitution--Yes. No." And as a heading to each of said 
ballots, shall be printed on each ballot the following 
instructions to voters: "All persons who desire to vote for the 
constitution may erase the word 'No.' All persons who desire to 
vote against the constitution may erase the word 'Yes.'" Any 
person may have printed or written on his ballot only the words: 
"For the Constitution," or "Against the Constitution," and such 
ballots shall be counted for or against the constitution 
accordingly. 
 
Article 21, Section 8  When constitution takes effect. 
 
This constitution shall take effect and be in full force 
immediately upon the admission of the territory as a state. 
 
Article 21, Section 9  First state election; time of 
holding; proclamation. 
 
Immediately upon the admission of the territory as a state, the 
governor of the territory, or in case of his absence or failure 
to act, the secretary of the territory, or in case of his 
absence or failure to act, the president of this convention, 
shall issue a proclamation, which shall be published and a copy 
thereof mailed to the chairman of the board of county 
commissioners of each county, calling an election by the people 
for all state, district and other officers, created and made 
elective by this constitution, and fixing a day for such 
election, which shall not be less than forty days after the date 
of such proclamation nor more than ninety days after the 
admission of the territory as a state. 
 
Article 21, Section 10  First state election; duty of 
county commissioners; who may vote; conduct of election. 
 
The board of commissioners of the several counties shall 
thereupon order such election for said day, and shall cause 
notice thereof to be given, in the manner and for the length of 
time provided by the laws of the territory in cases of general 
elections for delegate to congress, and county and other 
officers. Every qualified elector of the territory at the date 
of said election shall be entitled to vote thereat. Said 
election shall be conducted in all respects in the same manner 
as provided by the laws of the territory for general elections, 
and the returns thereof shall be made to the canvassing board 
hereinafter provided for. 
 
Article 21, Section 11  First state election; board of 
canvassers. 
 
The governor, secretary of the territory and president of this 
convention, or a majority of them, shall constitute a board of 
canvassers to canvass the vote of such election for member of 
congress, all state and district officers and members of the 
legislature. The said board shall assemble at the seat of 
government of the territory on the thirtieth day after the day 
of such election (or on the following day if such day fall on 
Sunday) and proceed to canvass the votes for all state and 
district officers and members of the legislature, in the manner 
provided by the laws of the territory for canvassing the vote 
for delegate to congress, and they shall issue certificates of 
election to the persons found to be elected to said offices, 
severally, and shall make and file with the secretary of the 
territory an abstract certified by them of the number of votes 
cast for each person, for each of said offices, and of the total 
number of votes cast in each county. 
 
Article 21, Section 12  When officers shall qualify; oaths; 
bonds. 
 
All officers elected at such election, except members of the 
legislature, shall, within thirty days after they have been 
declared elected, take the oath required by this constitution, 
and give the same bond required by law of the territory to be 
given in case of like officers of the territory or district, and 
shall thereupon enter upon the duties of their respective 
offices; but the legislature may require by law all such 
officers to give other or further bonds as a condition of their 
continuance in office. 
 
Article 21, Section 13  First state legislature. 
 
The governor elect of the state, immediately upon his qualifying 
and entering upon the duties of his office, shall issue his 
proclamation convening the legislature of the state at the seat 
of government, on a day to be named in said proclamation, and 
which shall not be less than thirty nor more than sixty days 
after the date of such proclamation. Within ten days after the 
organization of the legislature, both houses of the legislature, 
in joint session, shall then there proceed to elect, as provided 
by law, two senators of the United States for the State of 
Wyoming. At said election the two persons who shall receive the 
majority of all the votes cast by said senators and 
representatives shall be elected as such United States senators, 
and shall be so declared by the presiding officers of said joint 
session. The presiding officers of the senate and house shall 
issue a certificate to each of said senators, certifying his 
election, which certificates shall also be signed by the 
governor and attested by the secretary of state. 
 
Article 21, Section 14  Laws to be passed. 
 
The legislature shall pass all necessary laws to carry into 
effect the provisions of this constitution. 
 
Article 21, Section 15  Transfer of pending causes, records 
and seal of courts. 
 
Whenever any two of the judges of the supreme court of the 
state, elected under the provisions of this constitution, shall 
have qualified in their offices, the causes then pending in the 
supreme court of the territory, and the papers, records and 
proceedings of said court, and the seal and other property 
pertaining thereto, shall pass into the jurisdiction and 
possession of the supreme court of the state; and until so 
superseded the supreme court of the territory and the judges 
thereof shall continue with like powers and jurisdiction, as if 
this constitution had not been adopted. Whenever the judge of 
the district court of any district, elected under the provisions 
of this constitution, shall have qualified in office, the 
several causes then pending in the district court of the 
territory, within any county in such district, and the records, 
papers and proceedings of said district court and the seal and 
other property pertaining thereto, shall pass into the 
jurisdiction and possession of the district court of the state 
for such county; and until the district courts of this territory 
shall be superseded in the manner aforesaid, the said district 
courts and the judges thereof shall continue with the same 
jurisdiction and power to be exercised in the same judicial 
districts respectively as heretofore constituted under the laws 
of the territory. 
 
Article 21, Section 16  Court seals. 
 
Until otherwise provided by law the seals now in use in the 
supreme and district courts of this territory are hereby 
declared to be the seals of the supreme and district courts, 
respectively, of the state. 
 
Article 21, Section 17  Transfer of causes and records from 
probate courts to district courts. 
 
Whenever this constitution shall go into effect, records and 
papers and proceedings of the probate court in each county, and 
all causes and matters of administration and other matters 
pending therein, shall pass into the jurisdiction and possession 
of the district court of the same county, and the said district 
court shall proceed to final decree or judgment order or other 
determination in the said several matters and causes, as the 
said probate court might have done if this constitution had not 
been adopted. 
 
Article 21, Section 18  How legislature chosen. 
 
Senators and members of the house of representatives shall be 
chosen by the qualified electors of the several senatorial and 
representative districts as established in this constitution, 
until such districts shall be changed by law, and thereafter by 
the qualified electors of the several districts as the same 
shall be established by law. 
 
Article 21, Section 19  Duration of terms of territorial 
county and precinct officers. 
 
All county and precinct officers who may be in office at the 
time of the adoption of this constitution, shall hold their 
respective offices for the full time for which they may have 
been elected, and until such time as their successors may be 
elected and qualified, as may be provided by law, and the 
official bonds of all such officers shall continue in full force 
and effect as though this constitution had not been adopted. 
 
Article 21, Section 20  Terms of state officers first 
elected. 
 
Members of the legislature and all state officers, district and 
supreme judges elected at the first election held under this 
constitution shall hold their respective offices for the full 
term next ensuing such election, in addition to the period 
intervening between the date of their qualification and the 
commencement of such full term. 
 
Article 21, Section 21  Regular session of legislature 
following first session. 
 
If the first session of the legislature under this constitution 
shall be concluded within twelve months of the time designated 
for a regular session thereof, then the next regular session 
following said special session shall be omitted. 
 
Article 21, Section 22  Regular election following first 
session of legislature to be omitted. 
 
The first regular election that would otherwise occur following 
the first session of the legislature, shall be omitted, and all 
county and precinct officers elected at the first election held 
under this constitution shall hold their office for the full 
term thereof, commencing at the expiration of the term of the 
county and precinct officers then in office, or the date of 
their qualification. 
 
Article 21, Section 23  Why constitution framed. 
 
This convention does hereby declare on behalf of the people of 
the Territory of Wyoming, that this constitution has been 
prepared and submitted to the people of the Territory of Wyoming 
for their adoption or rejection, with no purpose of setting up 
or organizing a state government until such time as the congress 
of the United States shall enact a law for the admission of the 
Territory of Wyoming as a state under its provisions. 
 
Article 21, Section 24  State part of United States. 
 
The State of Wyoming is an inseparable part of the federal union 
and the constitution of the United States is the supreme law of 
the land. 
 
Article 21, Section 25  Religious liberty. 
 
Perfect toleration of religious sentiment shall be secured, and 
no inhabitant of this state shall ever be molested in person or 
property on account of his or her mode of religious worship. 
 
Article 21, Section 26  Ownership of certain lands 
disclaimed; restriction on taxation of nonresidents. 
 
The people inhabiting this state do agree and declare that they 
forever disclaim all right and title to the unappropriated 
public lands lying within the boundaries thereof, and to all 
lands lying within said limits owned or held by any Indian or 
Indian tribes, and that until the title thereto shall have been 
extinguished by the United States, the same shall be and remain 
subject to the disposition of the United States and that said 
Indian lands shall remain under the absolute jurisdiction and 
control of the congress of the United States; that the lands 
belonging to the citizens of the United States residing without 
this state shall never be taxed at a higher rate than the lands 
belonging to residents of this state; that no taxes shall be 
imposed by this state on lands or property therein, belonging 
to, or which may hereafter be purchased by the United States, or 
reserved for its use. But nothing in this article shall preclude 
this state from taxing as other lands are taxed, any lands owned 
or held by any Indian who has severed his tribal relations, and 
has obtained from the United States or from any person, a title 
thereto, by patent or other grant, save and except such lands as 
have been or may be granted to any Indian or Indians under any 
acts of congress containing a provision exempting the lands thus 
granted from taxation, which last mentioned lands shall be 
exempt from taxation so long, and to such an extent, as is, or 
may be provided in the act of congress granting the same. 
 
Article 21, Section 27  Territorial liabilities assumed. 
 
All debts and liabilities of the Territory of Wyoming shall be 
assumed and paid by this state. 
 
Article 21, Section 28  Legislature to provide for public 
schools. 
 
The legislature shall make laws for the establishment and 
maintenance of systems of public schools which shall be open to 
all the children of the state and free from sectarian control. 
 
Done in open convention, at the City of Cheyenne, in the 
Territory of Wyoming, this 30th day of September in the year of 
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine. 
 
Attested:  
 
 
 
 
 
Melville C. Brown, 
 
John K. Jeffrey, 
 
 
 
 
President. 
 
Secretary. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Geo. W. Baxter, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. C. Campbell, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
J. A. Casebeer, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. D. Clark, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Henry A. Coffeen, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Asbury B. Conaway, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Henry S. Elliott, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortimer N. Grant, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Henry G. Hay, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Frederick H. Harvey, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mark Hopkins, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
John W. Hoyt, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wm. C. Irvine, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
James A. Johnston, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jesse Knight, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elliott N. Morgan, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Edward J. Morris, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
John M. McCandlish, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Herman F. Menough, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Caleb P. Organ, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Louis J. Palmer, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. W. Holden, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
H. G. Nickerson, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. L. Sutherland, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W. E. Chaplin, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jonathan Jones, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
John L. Russell, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Geo. W. Fox, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Frank M. Foote, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chas. H. Burritt, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chas. N. Potter, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D. A. Preston, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
John A. Riner, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Geo. C. Smith, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
H. E. Teschemacher, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. L. Vagner, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thos. R. Reid, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Robt. C. Butler, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. W. Burdick, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
De Forest Richards, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meyer Frank, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M. C. Barrow, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Richard H. Scott. 
 
